the-force awakens.
the-force awakens, the-game's-hub will not be a-single-area, such as the-mos-eisley-cantina in lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga, but a-wide-range of fully-explorable-planets filled with many-iconic-star-wars-landmarks.
planets and moons confirmed by the-developers so far to be explorable in the-hub include naboo, tatooine, coruscant, kamino, geonosis, kashyyyk, utapau, mustafar, yavin 4, hoth, dagobah, bespin, endor, jakku, takodana, d'qar, starkiller-base, ahch-to, cantonica, crait, ajan-kloss, pasaana, kijimi, kef-bir, and exegol.
the-character made the-character first appearance in the-1983-film-return of the-jedi.
in april 2014 (with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production), lucasfilm separated the-star-wars-expanded-universe (rebranded as star-wars-legends) from official-star-wars-canon.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017) and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (2019).
daisy-ridley plays rey and adam-driver plays kylo-ren in the-sequel-films (2015—19).
with the-release of episode-ix: the rise of skywalker in 2019, daniels is credited with the-most-acting-appearances as the-same-character, having played c-3po in all-nine-films of the skywalker saga, as well as the anthology film rogue-one, the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series in 2008 and 2003, and a guest appearance in the-first-season of rebels.
^m denotes the-character was introduced within the-main-saga.
^a denotes the-character was introduced within the-anthology-series.
denotes the-character was introduced within an-animated-series or the-clone-wars-film.
denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-animated-series of film before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
^b denotes the-character was introduced within a-novel.
^lb denotes the-character originated within a non-canonical star wars legends novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
the-character was introduced within a-comic-book or graphic-novel.
^lc denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-comic-book or graphic-novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character introduced within the-current-category, but also has an-extended-plot-line within another-category.
example: ^+a would denote the-character was introduced within the-current-category but has an-extended-plot-line in the-anthology-series, alternatively ^+s would denote an-extended-plot-line in the-animated-series, and ^+as would denote extended-plot-lines on both-categories.)
the-rise of skywalker from footage originally shot for star-wars:
the-force awakens, but cut from the-rise of skywalker from footage.
g ewan-mcgregor's-voice can be heard saying the-newly-recorded-dialogue "these are your-final-steps, rey, rise and take these" while archive-recordings of alec-guinness saying "afraid" were cut to say "rey", both occurring when rey says "be with g-ewan-mcgregor's", and voices of past-jedi are heard.
the-force awakens star-wars-episode-viii:
the-rise of skywalker
the-last-jedi (2017).
a-mechanic with the-resistance, the-last-jedi (2017) befriends finn and works with finn to try to help resistance-forces escape from the-first-order.
rose was created by the-last-jedi-writer and director rian-johnson after he decided a-subplot originally involving finn and poe-dameron needed a-different-dynamic.
the-last-jedi was tran's-first-film-role, and kelly-marie-tran had never watched a-star-wars-film before auditioning for the-part.
that-novel establishes that rose and paige joined the-resistance after rose and paige impoverished-home-planet was devastated by the-first-order.
the-character of rose serves as a-relatable-audience-surrogate, an-everywoman, a-positive-influence on finn, and the-personification of real-life-star-wars-fandom.
johnson originally planned for rose to be sarcastic and irritable, but the-character of rose was changed to match tran's-personality after the-character of rose was cast, becoming more positive.
tran felt a-connection between rose's-past-experiences and those of tran's own family during the-vietnam-war, and tran did research about the-conflict and the-character of rose-family's-past to help get into rose's-mindset.
the-character and tran's-portrayal received largely-positive-reactions from critics and fans alike.
some have praised tran and the-character for providing a-positive-role-model for women of color.
nevertheless, tran became the-subject of racist-and-sexist-attacks over the-internet, which led tran to permanently clear tran instagram account.
multiple-fans and celebrities have come to tran's-defense, and tran directly responded to the-attacks with an-essay for the-new-york-times.
for tran-performance in the-last-jedi, tran was nominated for the-saturn-award for best-supporting-actress.
the-rise of skywalker (2019), the-final-installment in the-sequel-trilogy, in which rose has risen in the-ranks of the-resistance and has taken on a-greater-leadership-role.
the-last-jedi (2017), the-last-jedi (2017)-backstory is established in the middle-grade novel star-wars:
the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in star-wars sequel trilogy.
although parents are not featured as characters in the-novel, the-reference-book star-wars: the-last-jedi : the-visual-dictionary establishes that the-tico-sisters had a-close-relationship with the-tico-sisters parents, hue and thanya, who raised the-tico-sisters to have a-strong-sense of right and wrong.
the-first-order used the-planet to test the-first-order weapons and kidnap children to indoctrinate as stormtroopers.
as a-result, rose developed a-hatred of the-first-order starting in her-early-childhood.
the-tico-sisters join the-resistance, a-paramilitary-organization led by general leia organa fighting against the-first-order.
leia authorizes a-team of bombers, including rose and paige aboard the-cobalt-hammer, to gather reconnaissance in the-atterra-system and run supplies to the-citizens there.
leia also asks rose to devise a-technique to allow the-bombers to escape first-order-detection, leading leia to invent a-device called a "baffler", which reduces the-ship's-ion-emissions and makes its-energy-signature harder to detect, thus making the-bombers more difficult for enemy-sensors to locate.
the-last-jedi ===
after rose stops him by stunning him with an-electro-shock-prod, finn tells paige-tico the-first-order had found a-way to track the-raddus through hyperspace.
with help from resistance-droid bb-8, rose and finn set off on an-unauthorized-mission to the-casino-city of canto-bight to find a-master-codebreaker to assist rose and finn.
although finn is impressed by the-superficial-beauty and debauchery of canto-bight, rose reveals to finn the-dark-underpinnings of the-lavish-casino-city, pointing out the-fortunes of the-lavish-casino-city's rich inhabitants is supported by child-slavery, weapons dealing, and other-immoral-activities that result in the-suffering of others.
rose-and-finn-finn are arrested for rose-and-finn-illegal-entry into canto-bight, and in prison-rose and finn met an-unnamed-slicer, who along with bb-8 helps rose and finn escape and agrees to assist rose and finn in disabling the-supremacy's-tracking-device.
the-slicer betrays rose and finn, informing the-first-order of rose and the-others plan and providing information about the-resistance in exchange for the-slicer release and a-monetary-reward.
along with finn and poe, rose pilot a-ski-speeder in a-defensive-battle against first-order-forces, during which they try to destroy a-superlaser-siege-cannon before a-superlaser-siege-cannon can destroy the-door to the-base.
finn attempts a-hopeless-suicide-attack against a-superlaser-siege-cannon, but rose saves finn life by crashing her-speeder into finn, knocking finn off course and seriously injuring her in the-process.
rose tells finn the only way they will defeat the-first-order is by fighting for what they love, rather than fighting what they hate and then falls unconscious.
finn brings rose back to the-base, and finn unconscious body is taken aboard the-millennium-falcon along with the-other-resistance-survivors.
the-rise of skywalker ===
set about one year after the-events of the-last-jedi, rose has risen in the-ranks of the-resistance and has taken on a-greater-leadership-role, serving as head of the-organization's-engineering-corps.
when rey, finn, poe-dameron, chewbacca, c-3po, and bb-8 embark on a-mission to help track down the-revived-palpatine, finn invites rose to come along.
she later participates in the-climactic-battle-scene at the-end of the-film, when the-resistance confronts the-sith-eternal's-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, the-final-order, at the-planet of exegol.
rose communicates with finn-and-finn-ally-jannah during the-battle, and expresses concern for finn and his-ally jannah-safety as the-fighting intensifies.
she survives the-battle and is present with the-resistance when the-resistance celebrate the-resistance victory later on ajan-kloss.
the-comic also included the-first-meeting of rose-and-resistance-pilot and officer-poe-dameron, to whom rose responded with an-excitement similar to that when rose met finn in the-last-jedi.
the-issue, entitled "rose & paige", was released on january 31, 2018, and was set before the-events of the force awakens, when the-resistance was still based on d'qar.
this includes rose and paige working covertly to sabotage the-first-order on the-planet, as well as them fleeing hays-minor to join resistance, at the-insistence of them parents.
it also includes a-scene in-which-rose and paige, upon learning of the-destruction of hays-minor, seek to take a-ship and fly back to the-planet for a-suicidal-revenge-attack against first-order, but are stopped by leia and urged to stay and serve the-resistance instead.
their-space-shuttle is attacked by huge-jellyfish-like-creatures, and rose repairs a shorted out bb-8 while finn attempts to fly to safety.
galaxy of heroes-shock-prod, just as star-wars: galaxy of heroes did to finn in the-last-jedi.
written by ethan-sacks and illustrated by luke-ross and lee-loughridge, allegiance is set shortly after the-last-jedi, and in the-story leia asks rose to accompany leia on a-mission to the-planet-mon-cala to help secure allies for the-resistance.
when leia-and-leia-party are threatened by potential-enemies, rose is quickly prepared to help defend leia and her-party, though leia attempts to defuse any-hostilities.
when rey is coerced into a-duel with a-massive-combat-droid, rose and chewbacca interfere in the-fight and help rey defeat the-fight.
in the-final-issue of the-series, rose works with rey to track down a-terrorist who attacked the-group due to opposition to mon-cala allying the-group with the-resistance.
a-series of lego-star-wars launched on october 29, 2018, with tran once again providing the-voice of rose.
the-book was released on october 30, 2018.in the weeks approaching the-release of the-rise of skywalker, rose was featured in the-novels star-wars: spark of the-resistance and lego star-wars: resistance-reborn, both of which were released as part of a-multimedia-project called "journey to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker".
there poe, and bb-8 discover the-first-order has invaded an-isolated-planet called minfar and threatened the-indigenous-population in an-attempt to find secret-laboratories and discover a-legendary-weapon called the echo horn, which has the-ability to control the-minds of the-first-order victims.
rose and the-others successfully repel the-first-order and keep the-weapon out of the-others hands.
in the-novel, rose has recovered quickly from the-injuries rose suffered in the-last-jedi and is actively working to help restore the-resistance.
the-book also features a-scene in which poe inquires as to whether finn has romantic-interests in rose, to which finn response that although they shared "a-moment" during they kiss on crait, they are only-friends.
for example, most-characters in the-last-jedi reacted with shock that the-first-order was tracking the-resistance through hyperspace because it was believed to be impossible, but rose deduced how it is being done and helped develop a-solution.
idealistic and energetic, rose maintained a-sense of optimism despite rose difficult past and the-challenge the-resistance faces against the-first-order.
rose also had a-great-deal of fascination with the-galaxy around rose, and a-sense of awe about the-resistance and the-heroes that serve it.
in this-way rose differed from finn at the-start of the-last-jedi, who was more concerned about finn and finn friends than with helping the-resistance or stopping the-first-order.
however, the-example rose set for finn inspired finn, leading finn to capture some of rose idealism and place the-mission of the-resistance ahead of finn.
however, rose could also be rebellious, and was willing to disobey orders to do what rose thinks is right, as shown by rose willingness to work with finn and poe on a-secret-plan to help the-resistance in the-last-jedi.
rose's-rage toward the-first-order was informed not only by paige's-death, but also because paige personally witnessed the-brutality and devastation it unleashed on paige home planet of hays-minor.
as a-result, her-dedication to the-resistance was not tied to a-noble,-abstract-idea of heroism, but a-firsthand-knowledge of the-threat they are fighting, which gave her a-deeper-understanding of the-war than even some of the-soldiers around her.
rose's-feelings occasionally manifested in anger, such as her-reaction when her discovered finn attempting to flee the-raddus, or when her said of canto-bight that her wished her could "put (her)
however, rose was also very empathetic, as demonstrated by the-kindness her showed the-children on canto-bight, and the way her rescued finn at the-end of the-last-jedi.
both-johnson and tran have described rose as an-unlikely-hero who preferred to work in the-background, but was pulled into a-prominent-position in the-conflict by the-circumstances around rose.
tran said of the-character: "it's such-a-huge-deal to tran, the-idea that her's not necessarily special in the-way that we have defined special before in other-movies, or in other-stories. "
rose has also been described as the-personification of real-life-star-wars-fandom, with tran her saying: "i definitely believe that rose embodies the-idea of a-fan being pulled into something that’s kind of crazy.
this was particularly illustrated in rose's-excitement about meeting finn for the-first-time, during which her-trips over her-words, excitedly calling him "the finn", and nervously said "doing talking-[sic] with resistance-heroes isn't really my forte".
the-last-jedi (2017), which rian-johnson wrote and directed.
while working on the-script, rian-johnson originally had the-characters poe-dameron and finn go to canto-bight together, but rian-johnson decided having a-female-character accompany finn would make for a more interesting dynamic because otherwise, "it was just-these-two-dudes on an-adventure".
rian-johnson said in the-original-versions of the-script with poe and finn together, poe and finn dialogue could have been interchangeable and there was no-conflict between poe and finn.
details about the-character were first discussed at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in orlando, florida, on april 14, 2017.
johnson described rose-tico as the-"biggest-new-part in the-movie", and the-character introduced in the-film.
the-name rose was originally used for the-character maz-kanata during the-pre-production of star-wars:
the-force awakens.
for example, in the-original-script, finn was a-gunner along with paige during paige bombing run, and finn witnessed paige death.
additionally, the-master-codebreaker-rose and finn sought was originally planned to be an-insectoid-warlord who involved rose and finn in an-effort to rob a-rival.
this led to an-extended-sequence of finn, rose, and the-codebreaker's-crew climbing atop the-casino-rooftop during an-attempted-robbery, which ended with finn and rose getting arrested.
nevertheless, tran wore the-tie again during tran first callback.
tran went through five-intense-rounds of auditions over five-months between the-summer and fall of 2015, with one-month spanning between each-audition.
johnson observed tran during tran second audition, and immediately liked tran; johnson said watching tran felt like seeing the-character johnson pictured in johnson mind during the-writing-process.
during one of the-auditions, tran did one-on-one reads alongside john-boyega, the-actor who portrays finn, to determine whether the-two-actors had chemistry and worked well together.
boyega said boyega was clear from the-start of their-readings together that tran was the-best-actress for the-part.
three weeks later, in november 2015, johnson met with tran and offered tran the-role.
johnson said tran had an-oddball-nature and genuine-sweetness to tran, and johnson knew audiences would want tran character to succeed.
boyega felt tran's-background in improv-comedy and numerous-internet-videos ultimately helped tran bring to the-role a-light-tone necessary for the-last-jedi, despite the-seriousness of the-narrative.
the-casting of tran was first announced on the-official-star-wars-website on february 15, 2016, which described the-actress as a-"talented-newcomer".
tran discussed the-character for the-first-time publicly at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in orlando, where tran said: "tran's part of the-resistance, and tran works in maintenance.
in later-interviews, tran said tran hopes the-character will show viewers that "even if you are not born a-princess or into a-position of privilege, if you are a-background-player and aren't a-frontrunner like a-star-pilot, you can still make a-difference".
the-last-jedi was tran's-first-film-role.
that means a-lot to tran
tran said tran felt it was a-major-responsibility to portray someone viewers would look up to, and tran wanted to do the-character-justice.
in may 2017, tran posed as rose on the-cover of vanity-fair, becoming the-first-asian-american-cover to appear on the-magazine's-cover.
in december 2017, disney arranged for tran to embark on a-press-tour in singapore and tran parents’ home country of vietnam to publicize the-last-jedi.
the-costume-design for rose-tico was being developed for the-last-jedi before the-actress was cast.
this-idea was ultimately abandoned, and this-idea was decided that rose would wear the-coverall-costume throughout the-entire-canto-bight-subplot, which had the-effect of making rose and finn
tran wore a-form-fitting-first-order-uniform as a-disguise during rose-the-last-jedi-scenes with finn and the-unnamed-slicer aboard the-supremacy.
in january 2016, tran moved to london to begin filming.
tran was bound by confidentiality-agreements not to discuss the-character and could not tell anyone that tran was working on a-star-wars-film, even tran own family.
tran told she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family tran was filming an-independent-movie in canada; tran sent she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family-photos of canada that tran downloaded from google, and purchased canadian-maple-syrup for she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family as a-gift to make the-ruse more convincing.
to prevent secrets about the-film from leaking during filming, tran and the-other-actors were driven around the-sets in cars with tinted-windows, and made to wear black-robes so people would not recognize people.
on her-first-day on the-last-jedi-set, tran saw anthony-daniels performing as c-3po and hugged him, which her called "the best experience ever".
tran said: "you have to find a-way to just do the-work and kind of block everything (else) out.
tran was not used to living without tran established support-system, and often felt scared and lonely during filming, occasionally crying because tran wished tran friends could be part of the-experience it.
to combat the-isolation, tran joined an-improvisational-theatre-class in london, kept journals, and sought companionship from tran fellow cast members, especially-john-boyega.
tran shared more-scenes with john-boyega than any-other-cast-member, and tran said it was very easy to work with tran, and that tran learned a-lot from tran.
tran said of john-boyega: "john is someone who i feel like i immediately was able to mesh with.
tran said director-rian-johnson made the-actress feel very comfortable on the-set and collaborated with the-actress, seeking the-actress thoughts and suggestions about the-character.
in early-versions of the-script, tran said rose-tico was "more sarcastic and grumpy", and johnson compared rose-tico to the-winnie-the-pooh-character-eeyore.
however, once tran was cast, the-character's-personality gradually changed to match that of the-actress herself.
in the-original-script, rose was immediately suspicious of finn, but because of the-way the-character had changed to match tran's-personality, johnson realized she should admire finn initially and be excited to meet johnson.
it was one of the-few-scenes in the-last-jedi that johnson rewrote during the-production.
tran said of developing the-character: "
kelly's always going to be part of tran
tran called filming the-last-jedi "the ultimate acting class".
tran was particularly excited to work with laura-dern, of whom tran was a-strong-admirer, and carrie-fisher, who inspired tran with tran confidence and honesty.
tran said tran felt fisher was indirectly protecting tran just by virtue of tran strong personality.
tran and boyega were also particularly impressed by benicio-del-toro, who plays the-unnamed-slicer that tran and boyega share multiple-scenes with; tran said tran and boyega were obsessed with del-toro, adding: "every time tran did anything, tran and boyega would just turn to each other and say, 'tran's such a legend!"
tran enjoyed playing the-augmented-reality-mobile-game pokémon go on the-set of the-last-jedi, and got others on the-cast and crew to play it as well, including johnson and boyega.
tran shared a-physical-trainer with daisy-ridley, the-actress who played rey, and had to follow a-difficult-fitness-regimen, becoming so strong
tran learned how to push a-car.
tran was so impressed with the-work that went into making the-last-jedi that tran often visited the-set on days when tran wasn't performing tran, visiting the-art, creature, production-design, and costume departments.
johnson was nervous about filming the-scene immediately after rose and finn first met, in which rose was dragging a stunned finn away on a-cart, because the-dialogue involved a-great-deal of exposition
johnson credited the-acting-abilities of tran and boyega for making it work.
the-scenes in which rose and finn escaped from canto-bight by riding giant-creatures were shot during the-final-two-weeks of filming.
the-sequence was created by visual-effects-company-industrial-light & magic, who planned out the-animation, then created a-motion-base that tran and boyega rode atop.
a-motion-base that tran and boyega rode atop were programmed to move at a-speed and route that matched the-planned-animation.
in one, after rose and finn were captured on the-supremacy, general-hux mocked rose after seeing general-hux medallion, and general-hux responds by biting general-hux finger.
in another-deleted-scene, after escaping from the-supremacy on a-shuttle, rose and finn discussed rose and finn next destination and ultimately decided to rejoin the-resistance-forces on crait.
dialogue that involved rose chastising finn for being too emotionally attached to rey was also cut from the-film.
to understand the-mindset of rose's-traumatic-past-experiences with war, tran researched tran own family's experiences during the-vietnam-war; tran parents had to flee the-country during the-conflict, and tran had other-relatives who tried to escape at the-time but could not.
tran also listened to podcasts about the-vietnam-war to learn more about the-conflict.
tran felt a-connection between rose's-past-experiences and those of tran's own family, particularly-the-fact that both suffered losses and experienced poverty due to war.
tran said, "a-lot of the-things (rose) is dealing with are things that i already had inside tran".
tran also listened to podcasts and read books about engineers and how engineers think, which helped tran better understand tico's-role as a-mechanic-and-maintenance-worker.
tran did not share any-actual-screen-time with veronica-ngo, who played rose's-sister paige, but veronica-ngo, who played rose's-sister paige spent time together off-camera and would go to restaurants together and regularly send text-messages to each other.
tran felt a-connection with ngo, who is from vietnam like tran's family, and tran helped tran with taped-auditions for roles ngo was seeking.
tran felt the-moment rose kissed finn was one of tran character's bravest moments:
to put yourself out there romantically, for tran that’s very hard.
arguably-most-important-and-famous-line in the-last-jedi was delivered to finn at the-end of the-film: "
after filming wrapped on the-last-jedi, tran spent a year away from acting, in part to enjoy tran last few months of anonymity before tran role in star-wars became widely known.
tran worked on an-endangered-wildlife-reserve in south-africa, where there was no-electricity, running-water, or internet-access.
nobody there knew tran was an-actress until rose-tico-toys started coming out.
tran later went to vietnam to work with orphans, and brought tran parents back to her-parents-home-country for the-first-time since her-parents fled during the vietnam war 40 years earlier.
a-funko-pop-figurine of the-character was released the same day, as was a-lego-star-wars set of the-resistance-transport-pod-vehicle that included lego-figurines of rose, finn, and bb-8.
before writing the-stories, dawson read the-script for the-last-jedi in november 2016, as well as an-early-draft of the-cobalt-squadron-novel.
her said of rose and paige: " to her,-the-characters’re-the-heart of what the-resistance means: ordinary-people willing to make sacrifices in the-hopes that other-people and planets won’t have to suffer.
the-character of rose-tico and performance by kelly-marie-tran has received a-largely-positive-reception from critics but mixed-reviews from fans, with several-commentators calling kelly-marie-tran the breakout star of the-last-jedi.
sragow said the-character "blows into the-movie with a-fan's-enthusiasm, a can-do spirit, and bracing undercurrents of proletarian-rebellion".
variety's-meredith-woerner wrote: "stealing the-spotlight from the force awakens favorites, tran injected the-galaxy far, far away with a-dose of pure-enthusiasm."
likewise, matthew-aguilar of comicbooks.com said tran already developed a-large-fanbase among star-wars-fans even before the-film was released.
the-daily-herald included tran's-performance as rose-tico in the-daily-herald list of 10-great-screen-performers from 2017, with writer-sean-strangland calling the-character "a-delight".
richard-trenholm of cnet called rose delightful to watch, praising richard-trenholm of cnet chemistry with finn and saying richard-trenholm of cnet represented the-"indomitable-moral-spirit of star-wars with richard-trenholm of cnet clear-eyed determination to do the-right-thing".
david-sims of the-atlantic called rose a "wonderfully sneaky" character because david-sims of the-atlantic initially appears to be a-sidekick for finn, but instead becomes an-equal-partner who teaches finn important lessons.
kirk-baird of the-blade said tran delivered an-"honestly-sweet-performance".
some-critics who disliked the-last-jedi were still complimentary toward aspects of rose-tico's-character or tran's-performance.
salon-writer-matthew-rozsa, who disliked the-film and particularly criticized the-canto-bight-sequence, nevertheless noted: "the-chemistry between finn and rose makes finn and rose easily the-most-likable-and-sympathetic-characters in the-film".
similarly, ryan-syrek of the-reader felt the-first-half of the-last-jedi was clunky and the subplot involving finn-and-rose's-efforts to shut down the-tracking-device worked poorly, but ryan-syrek of the-reader said the-character-dynamics between the two were strong and described rose ryan-syrek of the-reader favorite character from the-new-trilogy.
tor.com-writer-emmet-asher-perrin said the-character "deserves more-attention than the-film is capable of giving kelly-marie-tran".
cinevue-writer-christopher-machell described the-character as woefully underwritten.
kyle-pinion of the-beat called the-character "basically-a-non-entity", saying gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar "never seems to grow beyond 'earnest'" and gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar relationship with finn felt rushed.
armond-white of the-national-review calls the-relationship between finn and rose a-politically-correct-"multi-culti-play".
the-new-york-observer-writer felt finn and rose had bad-chemistry and called finn and rose storyline a "misguided side-quest".
despite the-positive-reviews, tran became the-subject of racist-and-sexist-attacks over the-internet, including insults about tran ethnicity and weight, which began immediately after tran casting was announced.
in a-march-2018-interview, tran said tran had been receiving "really-acidic,-misogynistic,-racist-comments" regarding tran role as rose-tico.
tran has been the-target of racist-trolling on twitter.
the-character of rose-tico was defended by the-page.
without the-detour to canto-bight, finn wouldn't have grown past only caring about finn and finn immediate circle of friends.
in june 2018, tran deleted all of her-instagram-posts in response to online-harassment, and replaced the-account-bio with, "afraid, but doing it anyway.
esquire-writer-dom-nero called the-bullying of tran "another example of the-rising-current of hatred and discrimination in our-culture", and said it came from a-"very-vocal-minority of star-wars-fans who do not agree with the-progressive-ideals set forth in the-refreshingly-inclusive,-emotionally-nuanced-film".
a-study released in october 2018 found that up-to-51% of the-attacks tran received on social-media may have come from russian-bots instead of actual-star-wars-fans.
several-cast-and-crew-members of the-last-jedi condemned the-attacks tran received on social-media and spoke out in defense of tran, including rian-johnson, john-boyega, and actors-domhnall-gleeson, and mark-hamill, the last of whom tweeted a-picture of johnson with tran and wrote the-caption, "what's not to love?
claudia-gray, an-author who had written several-star-wars-books, said the-attacks against tran ran counter to the-principles of the-franchise, and people who did not understand that "were never a-star-wars-fan to begin with".
other-celebrities have expressed support for tran as well, including josh-gad, kumail-nanjiani, gabrielle-union, elijah-wood, and edgar-wright.
stephen-colbert condemned tran's-attackers during a-segment on the-late-show with stephen-colbert, during which stephen-colbert presented a-mock-trailer for the-last-jedi specifically designed to make "racist,-misogynist-nerds" angry.
in less-than-one-day, more-than-20,000-fans retweeted a-message of support for tran from a-fan on twitter that sought to "drown out the-manbabies".
in response to the-harassment, tran wrote an-essay for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
tran wrote that the-attacks reinforced microaggressions tran had long faced as a-vietnamese-american, and which sought to reinforce a-narrative that asians should be marginalized and treated only as minor-characters, both in stories and in real-life.
tran said tran even began to believe the-negative-statements made about tran, and that they sent tran down "a-spiral of self-hate, into the-darkest-recesses of my-mind, places where i tore tran apart,
tran later said the-new-york-times-essay was difficult to write, but also "probably one of the-proudest-moments of [tran] career thus far".
when tran appeared during a-panel about the-rise of skywalker at the-star-wars-celebration in chicago on april 12, 2019, tran received a-swell of support from the-crowd, who chanted tran name and gave tran a-standing-ovation, causing the-actress to tear up onstage.
the-rise of skywalker ===
fifty-three seconds tran received in the-last-jedi, and a shorter amount of time than rose's-sister paige received in rose's-sister paige single scene in the-last-jedi.
an-early-scene in which rose opts to stay on the-resistance-base while rey, finn, and poe go on adventure together was taken by many as a-direct-response to the-audience-reception of the-last-jedi and rose's arc within the-film.
tran had said in interviews before the-film's-release that tran was looking forward to scenes with rose and rey together in the-rise of skywalker, but fans and critics noted that no-such-scenes appeared in the-final-cut.
several-critics in their-reviews of the-film criticized rose's-minor-role, with some calling it a validation of the-people who attacked and harassed tran online.
terrio said the-filmmakers wanted rose to stay behind with leia while the-other-characters were away because the-filmmakers wanted one of the-principal-characters to be an-"anchor" for those-scenes, which terrio described as an-indication of rose's importance.
when asked on the-red-carpet at the-2020-academy-awards about her-much-shorter-role in the-film, tran said tran was impressed by how abrams resolved so-many-different-storylines, adding: "at the-end of the-day, i got to be part of something bigger than tran, and that's really special."
the-last-jedi (blu-ray: director's-commentary-track).
apart from earth itself, five-planets in the-solar-system are often visible to the-naked-eye.
five-planets in the-solar-system were regarded by many-early-cultures as divine, or as emissaries of deities.
as scientific-knowledge advanced,-human-perception of five-planets in the-solar-system changed, incorporating a-number of disparate-objects.
although eight of the-planetary-bodies discovered before 1950 remain "planets" under the-current-definition, some-celestial-bodies, such as ceres, pallas, juno and vesta (each-an-object in the-solar-asteroid-belt), and pluto (the-first-trans-neptunian-object discovered), that were once considered planets by the-scientific-community, are no longer viewed as planets under the-current-definition of planet.
planets were thought by ptolemy to orbit earth in deferent-and-epicycle-motions.
although the-idea that planets orbited the-sun had been suggested many times, it was not until the-17th-century that this-view was supported by evidence from the-first-telescopic-astronomical-observations, performed by galileo-galilei.
as observational-tools improved, astronomers saw that, like earth, each of planets rotated around an-axis tilted with respect to its-orbital-pole, and some shared such-features as ice-caps and seasons.
since the-dawn of the-space-age, close-observation by space-probes has found that earth and the-other-planets share characteristics such as volcanism, hurricanes, tectonics, and even-hydrology.
planets in the-solar-system are divided into two-main-types: large-low-density-giant-planets, and smaller-rocky-terrestrials.
there are eight-planets in the-solar-system according to the-iau-definition.
several-thousands of planets around other-stars
as of 1-april 2021, 4,704 known extrasolar-planets in 3,478-planetary-systems (including 770-multiple-planetary-systems), ranging in size from just above the-size of the-moon to gas-giants about twice as large as jupiter have been discovered, out of-which-more-than-100-planets are the-same-size as earth, nine of which are at the-same-relative-distance from which more than 100 planets star as earth from the-sun, i.e. in the-circumstellar-habitable-zone.
the-idea of planets has evolved over the-idea of planets-history, from the-divine-lights of antiquity to the-earthly-objects of the-scientific-age.
the-ambiguities inherent in defining planets have led to much-scientific-controversy.
in ancient-greece, china, babylon, and indeed-all-pre-modern-civilizations, it was almost universally believed that earth was the-center of the-universe and that all-the-"planets" circled earth.
the-reasons for this-perception were that stars and planets appeared to revolve around earth each day and the apparently common-sense perceptions that earth was solid and stable and that earth was not moving but at rest.
the-mul.apin is a pair of cuneiform tablets dating from the-7th-century-bc that lays out the-motions of the-sun, moon, and planets over the-course of the-year.
the-pythagoreans, in the-6th-and-5th-centuries bc appear to have developed the-pythagoreans own independent-planetary-theory, which consisted of the-earth, sun, moon, and planets revolving around a-"central-fire" at the-center of the-universe.
in the-3rd-century-bc, aristarchus of samos proposed a-heliocentric-system, according to which earth and the-planets revolved around the-sun.
these-schemes, which were based on geometry rather than the-arithmetic of the-babylonians, would eventually eclipse the-babylonians theories in complexity and comprehensiveness, and account for most of the-astronomical-movements observed from earth with the-naked-eye.
to the-greeks and romans there were seven-known-planets, each presumed to be circling earth according to the-complex-laws laid out by ptolemy.
the-greeks and romans were, in increasing-order from earth (in ptolemy's-order and using modern-names): the-moon,-mercury,-venus, the-sun,-mars, jupiter, and saturn.
the lowest of the-five-wandering-stars, and the-one nearest the-earth, is the-planet of venus, which is called φωσϕόρος (phosphoros) in greek, and lucifer in latin, when it is preceding the-sun, but ἕσπερος (hesperos) when it is following it; it completes it course in a-year, traversing the-zodiac both latitudinally and longitudinally, as is also done by the-planets above it, and on whichever-side of the-sun it is, it never departs more-than-two-signs’-distance from it."
he also believed that the-orbits of planets are elliptical.
with the-advent of the-scientific-revolution, use of the-term-"planet" changed from something that moved across the-sky (in relation to the-star-field); to a-body that orbited earth (or that was believed to do so at the-time); and by the-18th-century to something that directly orbited the-sun when the-heliocentric-model of copernicus, galileo and kepler gained sway.
thus, earth became included in the-list of planets, whereas the-sun and moon were excluded.
until the-mid-19th-century, the-number of "planets" rose rapidly because any-newly-discovered-object directly orbiting the-sun was listed as a-planet by the-scientific-community.
astronomers began to realize that-recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) were very different from the-traditional-ones.
recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) shared the-same-region of space between mars and jupiter (the-asteroid-belt), and had a-much-smaller-mass; as a-result recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) were reclassified as "asteroids".
in 1992, astronomers aleksander wolszczan and dale-frail announced the-discovery of planets around a-pulsar, psr-b1257 +12.
with the-discovery during the-latter-half of the-20th-century of more-objects within the-solar-system and large-objects around other-stars, disputes arose over what should constitute a-planet.
a-growing-number of astronomers argued for pluto to be declassified as a-planet, because many-similar-objects approaching a-growing-number of astronomers-size had been found in the-same-region of the-solar-system (the-kuiper-belt) during the-1990s and early-2000s.
the-number of planets dropped to the-eight-significantly-larger-bodies that had cleared the-number of planets-orbit (mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune), and a-new-class of dwarf-planets was created, initially containing three-objects (ceres, pluto and eris).
the-positions-statement incorporates the-following-guidelines, mostly focused upon the-boundary between planets and brown-dwarfs: objects with true-masses below the-limiting-mass for thermonuclear-fusion of deuterium (currently calculated to be 13-times-the-mass of jupiter for objects with the-same-isotopic-abundance as the-sun) that-orbit-stars or stellar-remnants are "planets" (no matter how orbit-stars or stellar-remnants formed).
the-exoplanet-data-explorer includes objects up-to-24-jupiter-masses with the-advisory: "the-13-jupiter-mass-distinction by the-iau-working-group is physically unmotivated for planets with rocky-cores, and observationally problematic due to the-sin i ambiguity."
another-criterion for separating planets and brown-dwarfs, rather than deuterium-fusion, formation-process or location, is whether the-core-pressure is dominated by coulomb-pressure or electron-degeneracy-pressure.
a-resolution defines planets within the-solar-system as follows
under this-definition, the-solar-system is considered to have eight-planets.
originally an-iau-committee had proposed a-definition that would have included a-much-larger-number of planets as an-iau-committee did not include (c) as a-criterion.
minor-planets and comets, including kbos [kuiper-belt-objects], differ from planets in that they can collide with each other and with planets.
"the-2006-iau-definition presents some-challenges for exoplanets because the-language is specific to the-solar-system and because the-criteria of roundness and orbital-zone-clearance are not presently observable.
objects formerly considered planets ===
the-table below lists solar-system-bodies once considered to be planets
but no longer considered as such by the-iau, as well as whether as well would be considered planets under stern's-2002-and-2018-definitions.
the-reporting of newly-discovered-large-kuiper-belt-objects as planets - particularly-eris - triggered the august 2006
in ancient-greece, the-two-great-luminaries the-sun and the-moon were called helios and selene; the-farthest-planet (saturn) was called phainon, the-shiner; followed by phaethon (jupiter), "bright"; the-red-planet (mars) was known as pyroeis, the "fiery"; the-brightest-(venus) was known as phosphoros, the-light-bringer; and the-fleeting-final-planet (mercury) was called stilbon, the-gleamer.
when the-romans studied greek-astronomy, the-romans gave the-planets the-romans own gods'-names: mercurius (for hermes), venus (aphrodite), mars (ares), iuppiter-(zeus) and saturnus (cronus).
earth is the-only-planet whose-name in english is not derived from greco-roman-mythology.
the same is true, in english at least, of the-sun and the-moon, though they are no longer generally considered planets.)
the-name originates from the-8th-century anglo-saxon word erda, which means ground or soil and was first used in writing as the-name of the-sphere of earth perhaps around 1300.
china and the-countries of eastern-asia historically subject to chinese-cultural-influence (such as japan, korea and vietnam) use a-naming-system based on the-five-chinese-elements: water (mercury), metal (venus), fire (mars), wood (jupiter) and earth (saturn).in-traditional-hebrew-astronomy , the-seven-traditional-planets have (for the-most-part)-descriptive-names – the-sun is חמה-ḥammah or "the-hot-one,"
the-moon is לבנה-levanah or "the-white-one," venus is כוכב-נוגה-kokhav-nogah or "the-bright-planet," mercury is כוכב-kokhav or "the-planet" (given its-lack of distinguishing features), mars is מאדים-ma'adim or "the-red-one," and saturn is שבתאי-shabbatai or "the resting one" (in reference to its-slow-movement compared to the-other-visible-planets).
, earth is الأرض (
al-ʾarḍ, from the-same-root as eretz), mars is اَلْمِرِّيخ (al-mirrīkh, meaning "featherless-arrow" due to "featherless-arrow" retrograde motion), jupiter is المشتري (al-muštarī, "the reliable one", from akkadian) and saturn is زُحَل (zuḥal, "withdrawer").
it is not known with certainty how planets are formed.
the-prevailing-theory is that planets are formed during the-collapse of a-nebula into a-thin-disk of gas and dust.
thereafter there still may be many-protoplanets orbiting the-star or each other, but over time many will collide, either to form a-single-larger-planet or release material for other-larger-protoplanets or planets to absorb.
protoplanets that have avoided collisions may become natural-satellites of planets through a-process of gravitational-capture, or remain in belts of other-objects to become either-dwarf-planets or small-bodies.
the-planets of the-solar-system can be divided into categories based on the-planets of the-solar-system composition:
terrestrials: planets that are similar to earth, with bodies largely composed of rock: mercury, venus, earth and mars.
earth is the-largest-terrestrial-planet.
the-number of geophysical-planets in the-solar-system is unknown - previously considered to be potentially in the-hundreds, but now only estimated at only-the-low-double-digits.
these-pulsar planets current-orbits.
the-catalog of kepler-candidate-planets consists mostly of planets the-size of neptune and smaller, down to smaller than mercury.
there are types of planets that do not exist in the-solar-system: super-earths-and-mini-neptunes, which could be rocky like earth or a-mixture of volatiles and gas like neptune—a-radius of 1.75 times that of earth is a-possible-dividing-line between the-two-types of planet.
there are exoplanets that are much closer to their-parent-star than any-planet in the-solar-system is to the-sun, and there are also exoplanets that are much farther from their-parent-star.
mercury, the-closest-planet to the-sun at 0.4-au, takes 88-days for an-orbit, but the-shortest-known-orbits for exoplanets take only-a-few-hours, see ultra-short-period-planet.
the-solar-system has five of the-solar-system planets in shorter-orbits than mercury's, all of its-planets much more massive than mercury.
the-solar-system is 30-au from the-sun the-sun and takes 165-years to orbit, but there are exoplanets that are hundreds of au from hundreds of au and take more-than-a-thousand-years to orbit, e.g. 1rxs1609 b. ==
proponents of the-geophysical-definition of planets argue that location should not matter and that only-geophysical-attributes should be taken into account in the-definition of a-planet.
some of these-characteristics, such as rings or natural-satellites, have only as yet been observed in planets in the-solar-system, whereas others are also commonly observed in extrasolar-planets.
in the-solar-system, all-the-planets orbit the-sun in the-same-direction as the-sun rotates (counter-clockwise as seen from above the-sun's north pole).
as a-planet approaches periastron, a-planet speed increases as a-planet trades gravitational-potential-energy for kinetic-energy, just as a-falling-object on earth accelerates as a-planet falls; as the-planet reaches apastron, a-planet speed decreases, just as an-object thrown upwards on earth slows down as a-planet reaches the-apex of a-planet trajectory.
planets with low-eccentricities have more-circular-orbits, whereas planets with high-eccentricities have more-elliptical-orbits.
the-planets in the-solar-system have very-low-eccentricities, and thus-nearly-circular-orbits.
the-eight-planets of the-solar-system all lie very close to the-ecliptic; comets-and-kuiper-belt-objects like pluto are at-far-more-extreme-angles to it.
planets also have varying-degrees of axial-tilt; planets lie at an-angle to the-plane of planets stars' equators.
most of the-planets in the-solar-system rotate in the-same-direction as the-planets in the-solar-system orbit the-sun, which is counter-clockwise as seen from above the-sun's north pole, the-exceptions being venus and uranus, which rotate clockwise, though uranus's extreme axial tilt means there are differing-conventions on which of uranus poles is "north", and therefore whether uranus is rotating clockwise or anti-clockwise.
a-planet's-defining-physical-characteristic is that a-planet is massive enough for the-force of a-planet own gravity to dominate over the-electromagnetic-forces binding a-planet physical structure, leading to a-state of hydrostatic-equilibrium.
the-smallest-known-planet orbiting a-main-sequence-star other than the-sun is kepler-37b, with a-mass (and radius) slightly higher than that of the-moon.
of the-eight-planets in the-solar-system, only-venus and mars lack such-a-magnetic-field.
jupiter-ganymede's-magnetic-field is several times larger, and jupiter's is the strongest in the-solar-system (so strong in fact that ganymede's-magnetic-field poses a-serious-health-risk to future-manned-missions to ganymede's-magnetic-field moons).
several-planets or dwarf-planets in the-solar-system (such as neptune and pluto) have orbital-periods that are in resonance with each other or with smaller-bodies (this is also common in satellite-systems).
earth has one, mars has two, and the-giant-planets have numerous-moons in complex-planetary-type-systems.
cast-member-vicky-pattison has featured in the-show since the-first-series.
this is a-list of the-current-cast-members appearing in the-show in order of their-first-appearance.
this is a-list of the-former-cast-members who have appeared in the-show in order of former-cast == last appearance.
after the-third-series, gardner and rebecca-walker exited the-show and auditions were held to find gardner and walker replacements for the-fourth-series of geordie-shore.
on 12-july 2013 it was announced that sophie-kasaei had been sacked from the-show following an-incident which took place in a-nightclub where sophie-kasaei used a-racist-term off camera.
sophie-kasaei will have appeared in the-show from series 1–7.
on 28-october 2014, it was revealed that the-upcoming-ninth-series of the-show would be vicky's-last-series.
on 17-november 2014, despite a-tenth-series already being announced, the-upcoming-ninth-series of the-show would be vicky's-last-series was confirmed that this would be james'-last-series after james' would be axed from the-show at the-end of series.
scott-timlin returned to the-show in the-role of boss.
sam-gowland and tahlia-chung left the-show after that-season.
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix –
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is a-2019-american-epic-space-opera-film produced, co-written, and directed by j.-j.-abrams.
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is the-third-installment of the star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the nine-part "skywalker saga".
the-rise of skywalker follows rey, finn, and poe-dameron as they lead the-resistance's-final-stand against supreme-leader-kylo-ren and the-first-order, who are aided by the-return of the-deceased-galactic-emperor,-palpatine.
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
there, kylo-ren finds palpatine, who reveals that kylo-ren created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and lure kylo to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order—a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—and tells kylo to find and kill rey, who is continuing her-jedi-training under resistance-leader-leia-organa.
finn and poe-dameron deliver intelligence from a-spy that palpatine is on exegol; rey has learned from luke-skywalker's-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead them there.
kylo initiates a-force-bond with rey to discover her-location; kylo travels to pasaana with kylo warrior subordinates, the-knights of ren.
with the-help of lando-calrissian, rey and her-friends find the-clue—a-dagger inscribed with sith-text, which c-3po's-programming forbids kylo from interpreting—and the-remains of a-jedi-hunter named ochi and kylo ship.
rey senses kylo nearby and faces rey.
the-first-order captures the-falcon, chewbacca, and the-dagger; attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning.
rey senses chewbacca is alive, and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission to kylo's-star-destroyer.
rey recovers the-dagger and has visions of ochi killing rey parents with the-dagger.
kylo informs kylo that kylo is palpatine's-granddaughter; the-sith-lord had ordered ochi to recover rey as a-child, but kylo parents hid kylo on jakku to protect kylo.
rey retrieves the-wayfinder from the-remains of the-second-death-star, but she is met by kylo, who destroys the-wayfinder and duels she.
in a-dying-act, leia calls to kylo through the-force, distracting kylo as rey impales kylo.
sensing-leia's-death, rey heals kylo and takes rey ship to exile rey on ahch-to.
there, luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives rey leia's lightsaber.
rey leaves for exegol in luke's-x-wing-fighter, using the-wayfinder from kylo's-ship.
, palpatine sends one of palpatine superlaser-equipped star destroyers to destroy kijimi as a-show of force.
rey transmits her-coordinates to r2-d2, allowing the-resistance—now led by poe and finn—to follow her to exegol.
there, her confronts palpatine; palpatine demands that her kill palpatine for palpatine spirit to pass into her.
lando brings reinforcements from across the-galaxy to join the-battle.
ben overpowers the-knights of ren and joins rey, but palpatine drains the-knights of ren power to rejuvenate palpatine.
palpatine incapacitates ben and attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who lend her their-strength.
palpatine attacks her with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine before dying her.
ben uses the-force to revive her at the-cost of ben own life; they share a-kiss before ben dies.
the-resistance defeats palpatine's-armada, while people across the-galaxy rise up against the-first-order.
the-resistance returns to
after the-celebration, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries rey and leia's-lightsabers.
a-passerby asks a-passerby name; as the-spirits of luke and leia watch, a-passerby replies, "rey-skywalker."
mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi-master and maternal-uncle of kylo-ren became one with the-force in the-last-jedi.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-former-scavenger from jakku, member of the-resistance, and the-next-jedicailey-fleming and josefine-irrera-jackson as young rey john boyega as finn, a-member of the-resistance and a-former-stormtrooper-(fn-2187) who defected from the-first-order oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa
naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance-domhnall-gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire-lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi
joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather billy-dee-williams as lando-calrissian, a-veteran of the-rebel-alliance, a-former-owner of the-millennium-falcon, and an-old-friend of chewbaccabillie lourd and greg-grunberg reprise their-roles as lieutenant-kaydel-ko-connix and temmin
abrams co-wrote the-new-script with chris-terrio, though trevorrow and connolly retain story-credits.
according to terrio, the-film's-script had to include certain-narrative-beats provided by kennedy and rejwan, including the-redemption of the-character kylo-ren.
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
since the-event was held after principal-photography wrapped, abrams was thrilled that news of ian-mcdiarmid on the-set never leaked.
kathleen-kennedy said they decided to reveal palpatine's-return ahead of the-film's-release because of the-characters playing a-larger-role in the-story, having they differentiated from baby-yoda, the-character from the-mandalorian.
oscar-isaac stated that abrams was allowing more-improvised-acting than in the-previous-two-films.
despite staying silent about many-details of the-film, abrams expressed abrams hopes that fans and general-audiences would be "satisfied".
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
it includes the-novel-resistance-reborn, set between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker, and various-other-titles.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-official-novelization of the-rise of skywalker is by rae-carson:
at the-end of a-live-event, a-message from palpatine (the-one mentioned in the-film's-opening-crawl) was heard.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
endgame (2019) became atom-tickets'-second-best-first-day-seller of all-time behind endgame, selling more-than-twice-the-number of tickets as the-last-jedi sold in that-same-timeframe, while fandango reported fandango outsold all-previous-star-wars-films.
box-office-tracking had the-rise of skywalker grossing around $200 million in box-office-tracking opening weekend, though some-firms predicted a-debut closer to $175 million.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-website's-critical-consensus reads, "the-rise of skywalker suffers from a-frustrating-lack of imagination, but concludes this-beloved-saga with fan-focused-devotion.
lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
" the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film's-acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
scott-mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
relishmix, which tracks social-media-posts and online-presence, "noticed a-divided-reaction to skywalker online, though it leaned slightly positive".
the-rise of skywalker at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker at imdb-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki star warsskywalker , is an-american-actress.
the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
tran attended westview-high-school in san-diego and worked at a-yogurt-shop to earn money for head-shots.
tran then graduated from ucla with a-b.a. in communications.
early-work === landed a-commercial-agent in 2011, who got tran to take improv-classes at the-upright-citizens-brigade.
at the-second-city, tran is part of the-all-female,-asian-american-improv-group, number-one-son.
in 2013, tran starred in the-web-series-ladies like us.
in 2015, tran was working as an-assistant at a-creative-recruiting-firm in century-city.
in 2015, tran was cast as rose-tico in star-wars: the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi made tran the first asian-american woman to have a-major-role in a-star-wars-film.
tran voiced raya in the walt disney animation studios production raya and the-last-dragon, replacing cassie-steele.
tran was to play val-little in the upcoming disney+
tran has also been cast as dawn in the-film
following the-release of star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017), tran became the-subject of racist-and-misogynistic-attacks over the-internet, including insults about tran ethnicity and weight.
tran was the-target of racist-trolling on twitter; in one-example, internet-personality-paul-ray-ramsey mocked tran weight.
after months of online-harassment, tran deleted all of tran instagram posts in june 2018, and replaced the-account-bio with, "afraid, but doing it anyway.
subsequently, several-cast-and-crew-members of the-last-jedi condemned the-attacks and spoke out in defense of tran, including writer-director-rian-johnson and actors-john-boyega, domhnall-gleeson, and mark-hamill, the last of whom tweeted a-picture of himself with tran and wrote the-caption, "what's not to love?
other-celebrities voiced support for tran as well, including stephen-colbert, josh-gad, kumail-nanjiani, gabrielle-union, elijah-wood, and edgar-wright.
in less-than-one-day, more-than-20,000-fans retweeted a-message of support for tran from a-fan on twitter that sought to "drown out the-manbabies".
tran was also shown support at the-2018-san-diego-comic-con during a-"rally for rose", where fans appeared in cosplay-attire as tran star wars character rose tico or wore "rose for hope" t-shirts.
after a-prolonged-stretch of silence about her-harassment, tran wrote an-essay on the-subject for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
tran further wrote that the-ordeal came to a-point when tran began to believe the-negative-remarks made about tran, stating they had sent tran "down a-spiral of self-hate, into the-darkest-recesses of my-mind, places where i tore tran apart, where i put they words above my own self-worth."
tran concluded with, "you might know me as kelly.
tran later said the-essay was difficult to write, but also "probably one of the-proudest-moments of [tran] career thus far."
in the-mandalorian ==, fennec-shand is presented as an-elite-mercenary and assassin who developed a-significant-reputation committing murders for the-galaxy's-top-crime-syndicates, including the-hutts, before the-galaxy's-top-crime-syndicates, including the-hutts leaders were imprisoned by the-new-republic.
the-mandalorian eventually charge toward her-position on speeder-bikes and use flash-charges to temporarily blind and distract her.
when the-mandalorian temporarily departs to secure them transportation, fennec informs toro that the-mandalorian is wanted by the-bounty-hunters-guild, and that capturing him would bring toro a-legendary-reputation.
fennec offered to work with toro to subdue the-mandalorian and turn toro over to the-bounty-hunters-guild.
toro decides to attempt to capture the-mandalorian himself, and leaves fennec's-body in the-desert. "
she accompanies fett to tython, where they attempt to recover the-latter's-old-armor from the-mandalorian, and ensure the-safety of grogu, a-force-sensitive-alien-infant that the-mandalorian has adopted, in exchange for the-armor's-return.
to repay their-debt to the-mandalorian for returning fett's-armor, fett and fennec aid fett efforts to rescue grogu in both-"chapter 15:
ming-na-wen, the-actress who portrays fennec, felt the-character has a-moral-ambiguity similar to that of popular-star-wars-character-han-solo.
anthony-breznican of vanity-fair has noted that the-character is rather talkative in this-way, in contrast to the-usually-stoic-and-silent-title-character, the-mandalorian.
she feels the-character "has a-good-sense of humor about it all as well".
wen was a-fan of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, and as one of the-few-asian-girls growing up in mt.-lebanon, pennsylvania during wen childhood, wen could relate in particular to the-character luke-skywalker and wen dreams of a-more-meaningful-life.
wen said wen is pleased there has been more-representation of asians among the-casts of star-wars-projects in recent-years, citing kelly-marie-tran's-character rose-tico in star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017) as another-example.
after attending the-premiere for the-mandalorian on november 13, 2019, wen posted photos from the-event on twitter and wrote: " what a night!
anthony-breznican of vanity-fair noted the-fennec-fox is a-particularly-appropriate-model for the-character because, like fennec-shand, it is both-predator and prey.
wen felt the-character shared common-attributes with the-fennec-fox, including trickiness, stealthiness, maneuverability, and the-ability to survive.
the-character of fennec-shan and casting of wen were first announced at the-d23-expo in anaheim, california on august 23, 2019.
footage of fennec-shand was first publicly shown in a-30-second-teaser-trailer for the-mandalorian released on november 4, 2019.
abbey-white said the-character was "eagerly anticipated" by the-time the-mandalorian premiered.
as a-result, the-hairstylist on the-mandalorian conceived a-braiding-system with triangular-points, similar to the-ears of a-fennec-fox.
vanity-fair-writer-anthony-breznican felt men's-health-writer evan-romano continued a-positive-and-significant-trend of greater-diversity in star-wars casting, citing other-examples of asian-actors in recent-projects such as kelly-marie-tran in the-last-jedi and christopher-sean in star-wars resistance.
jackson-mchenry of vulture praised wen's-performance, and called the-character "one of the-badder-ass-badasses in the-world of the-mandalorian".
dirk-libbey of cinemablend called the-character "criminally underused", and allie-gemmill of inverse called allie-gemmill of inverse death "hasty".
several-reviewers correctly speculated that the-character was still alive, with some-arguing
so-enjoyed-wen's-acting that stephanie-dube-dwilson of heavy.com hopes the-character returns.
all-other-cast-members from the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne return with the-addition of new-cast-member-aaron-chalmers who had briefly appeared during series two of the-show as a-one-night-stand of holly's.
rey, also known as rey skywalker, is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise and the-main-protagonist of the-sequel-film-trilogy.
rey was created by lawrence-kasdan, j.-j.-abrams, and michael-arndt for the force awakens (2015), the-first-installment of the-sequel-film-trilogy, and is portrayed by daisy-ridley.
she also appears in the-film's-sequels, the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019), and related-star-wars-media.
rey is introduced as a-scavenger who was left behind on the-planet-jakku when rey was a-child.
rey later becomes involved with the-resistance's-conflict with the-first-order.
powerful with the-force, rey trains to be a-jedi under luke-skywalker and general-leia, and faces adversaries such as supreme-leader-snoke, kylo-ren, and the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine—who is revealed to be rey grandfather in the-rise of skywalker.
rey later adopts the-name "skywalker" to honor rey mentors and the-family-legacy.
reception to the-character and ridley's-performance has been highly positive.
the-character was known as kira in the-early-stages of production, and screenwriter-michael-arndt described kira as a "loner, hothead, gear-head, badass".
ridley recalled that-director and writer-j.-j.-abrams originally intended to name the-character "keera" [sic], but during filming in abu-dhabi, writer-j.-j.-abrams revealed to ridley that ridley was thinking of going with "rey".
on creating a-female-lead for the-new-trilogy, abrams stated that from abrams initial discussions with writer-lawrence-kasdan, abrams was excited at the-concept of having a-woman at the-center of the-story.
abrams said that "we always wanted to write rey as the-central-character" and that other-female-representation in the-story was also important.
daisy-ridley-inexperience and lack of exposure were a-crucial-part of what convinced abrams to give daisy-ridley the-role, as the-previous-installments had featured relatively-unknown-talent that would not experience heightened-degrees of scrutiny.
abrams stated that ridley "was so funny and had a-great-spark", as well as having ridley act out an-emotional-scene, proclaiming that "ridley nailed it on the-first-take."
abrams went on to praise ridley, saying, "ridley was born with this-gift to be in a-moment and make this-gift ridley own.
kennedy proclaimed, "ridley had a-physicality and a-self-confidence that was so important to the-character we were looking for.
ridley recalled ridley shooting experience as starting off bumpy, with abrams telling ridley that ridley
but ridley and abrams had an-"incredibly-collaborative"-process creating rey; ridley recalled that the-character "changed from when ridley and abrams first began, ridley became softer.
ridley has said that rey will have "some-impact in a-girl-power-y-way", adding that the-character "doesn't have to be one-thing to embody a-woman in a-film.
composer-john-williams said that her-theme does not suggest a-love-theme, but rather a-strong-female-adventurer-character infused with the-force for a-mature,-thoughtful-theme.
rey is introduced as a-19-year-old-woman in the force awakens.
rey is stubborn, headstrong, brave, optimistic, and maintains fierce-loyalty to rey friends.
ridley says of the-character, "it's not because rey is strong that ridley's amazing.
rey is highly force-sensitive, which is revealed when ridley is presented with the-lightsaber first owned by anakin-skywalker, then rey son luke.
without training, she is able to use the-force and defeat the powerful (albeit injured)
kylo-ren in a-duel.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
rey is first introduced as an-orphan living alone on the-desert-planet jakku, scraping a-living through scavenging parts from ships.
she rescues the-astromech-droid bb-8 and encounters finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper.
attacked by first-order-troops, rey steals and pilots the-millennium-falcon to evade finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper and escape jakku.
she saves finn and smuggler han-solo
impressed with rey's-bravery and piloting-skill, han offers she a-job on the-millennium-falcon; however, rey declines rey offer, feeling that she has to return to jakku.
takodana to return bb-8 to the-resistance, the-first-order is alerted to their-presence.
rey visits maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on the-planet's-basement-vault in which maz has stored a-lightsaber that once belonged to luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and maz father before maz.
upon touching it, rey experiences a-terrifying-vision: rey sees a-battle led by first-order-enforcer-kylo-ren (adam-driver), a-flashback of rey younger self being left behind on jakku, and a-vision of luke, the-last-jedi-master in the-galaxy, who has been missing for several-years.
maz debates that whoever abandoned rey will never return to jakku, and rey only option is to seek out strength in the-force.
feeling overwhelmed, rey rejects the-lightsaber and flees into the-forest.
the-first-order attacks maz's-castle, and ren captures rey when the-resistance arrives.
ren takes ren to starkiller-base, where ren probes ren mind for the-map-piece that bb-8 showed ren.
ren uses the-force to read rey's-mind, revealing rey feels that han is like the-father ren never had.
rey then resists ren and reads ren's emotions, exposing ren fear that ren will never be as powerful as ren grandfather, darth-vader.
ren reports to ren master, supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), who commands that rey should be brought before ren.
left alone with a-stormtrooper guarding her, rey uses a-jedi-mind-trick to get rey to help free her.
han, and chewbacca watch in horror as ren kills ren own father, han.
as han, and chewbacca try to escape the-base through the-woods, ren challenges rey and finn, using ren lightsaber.
after ren seriously injures finn and disarms him of luke's-lightsaber, rey uses the-force to retrieve the-weapon and battles ren ren.
initially overpowered, rey rejects ren's-offer to train ren and uses the-force with the-lightsaber, disfiguring ren face.
after escaping the-destroyed-base in the-millennium-falcon with chewbacca and the-wounded-finn, ren returns to the-destroyed-base in the-millennium-falcon.
while the-resistance celebrates the-victory, rey mourns han's-death with leia-organa (carrie-fisher) and visits finn, who is still unconscious.
ren decides to seek out luke's-location, using information provided by bb-8-and-the-re-activated-r2-d2-(kenny-baker).
rey, chewbacca, and r2-travel in the-falcon to the-oceanic-planet of ahch-to; upon finding luke, rey presents rey with rey longtime lightsaber.
rey is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
rey is also a-point of view-character in the-2015-novelization of the force awakens by alan-dean-foster.
after receiving criticism, hasbro stated that hasbro did not include rey to avoid revealing spoilers, and would be including rey in future-toy-releases.
abrams said, "i will say that it seems preposterous and wrong that the-main-character of the-movie is not well represented in what is clearly a-huge-piece of the-star-wars-world in terms of merchandising."
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
rey is one of the-key-characters of the-last-jedi.
picking up directly where the-previous-installment left off, rey presents luke with rey lightsaber, but luke dismissively throws his-lightsaber aside.
luke eventually agrees to teach rey the-ways of the-force.
rey demonstrates immense-raw-strength and a-clear-temptation toward the-dark-side of the-force that reminds luke of kylo-ren, who was once his-nephew and student, ben-solo.
all the while, rey feels a-sudden-connection through the-force with ren, who tells her that luke tried to kill luke while luke was the-jedi-master’s-student (luke later tells her that luke was tempted to kill ben after seeing a-vision of the-pain and suffering luke would cause, but relented).
in one of their-conversations, rey and ren touch hands, and through this rey swears that rey is able to feel conflict within ren, and becomes determined to turn ren back to the-light-side.
rey asks luke once more to come with rey and rejoin the-resistance, but rey declines.
so, rey, chewbacca, and r2-d2 leave without rey, and rey goes to meet ren in the-supremacy.
ren takes rey-prisoner and brings ren before snoke.
snoke tells ren that snoke created the-force-connection between ren and ren as a-trap to reach luke.
snoke-tortures and taunts rey, showing her the-attack on the-resistance-transports, and eventually orders ren to kill her.
ren instead kills snoke, and ren and rey fight snoke's guards side by side.
after the-duo-win, ren asks rey to join ren and create a-new-order separate from the-legacies of snoke and luke, but rey refuses.
in an-attempt to get her to turn, ren gets rey to admit that ren parents abandoned ren.
despite the-revelation, rey refuses to join ren and uses the-force to summon luke's-lightsaber, but ren does so, too, resulting in a-standoff that ultimately breaks luke's-lightsaber.
shortly afterwards, resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) rams resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) cruiser into snoke's-flagship, separating rey from ren.
rey subsequently uses snoke's-escape-craft to flee the-dreadnought as later stated by general-hux.
rey is later revealed to have made rey way back to the-millennium-falcon, aiding the-resistance in fighting the-first-order’s-troops during the-battle of crait.
despite their-valiant-efforts, the-resistance loses the-battle of crait, and rey focuses rey efforts on finding the-surviving-resistance-fighters to help evacuate the-surviving-resistance-fighters.
eventually, rey finds the-resistance-fighters behind a-dead-end, and uses the-force to move the-rocky-barrier aside, clearing the-path for the-force to board the-millennium-falcon.
rey reunites with finn and leia and meets poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) for the-first-time aboard the-falcon.
rey feels luke’s-death through the-force, and reassures leia that he met he end with "peace and purpose".
as she holds the-leftovers of luke's-lightsaber, rey asks leia how they can rebuild the-resistance from what remains, and leia, gesturing towards rey, says that they now have all they need.
unbeknownst to leia, that includes the-fact that rey stole the-sacred-jedi-texts from luke before yoda's-(frank-oz)-ghost burned the-tree-cave they were in.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
rey is the-main-protagonist of the-trilogy's-final-film, the-rise of skywalker, which is set one year after the-events of the-last-jedi.
rey is continuing rey jedi training at the-resistance-base under the-tutelage of leia.
the-resistance announces that the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has been manipulating events from the-sith-world-exegol and has built a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—the final order.
rey discovers from luke's-old-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead a-sith-wayfinder to exegol.
rey locates the-clue—a-dagger with sith-inscriptions—with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams).
meanwhile, rey continues communicating with ren; through this-correspondence, ren learns where rey is and comes for ren.
rey confronts ren, inadvertently allowing chewbacca to be taken aboard a-first-order-transport.
attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys the-transport with force-lightning, seemingly killing chewbacca.
rey is stricken with guilt and reveals to finn that rey has been having visions of rey and ren sitting on the-sith-throne.
rey and the-others travel to kijimi, where programmer-babu-frik extracts the-location of the-wayfinder—the-moon-kef-bir—from c-3po's-memory-files.
ren and the-first-order follow rey to kijimi.
rey senses chewbacca is alive and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission.
rey retrieves the-dagger aboard ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer steadfast and has visions of ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer parents being killed with it; ren informs ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer that ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer is palpatine's-granddaughter.
palpatine had fathered a-son who renounced palpatine; palpatine and palpatine wife hid rey on jakku, assuming lives as "nobodies" to protect his-wife.
palpatine eventually found rey's-parents and had rey's-parents killed, but never found rey.
ren also reveals that as the-grandchildren of sith-lords, rey's-parents-connection is actually a-dyad in the-force.
ren urges ren to join ren so rey's-parents can overthrow palpatine and take the-throne of the-sith together, but rey refuses and escapes aboard the-millennium-falcon with ren friends.
together, they travel to kef-bir where rey retrieves the-wayfinder on the-remains of the-second-death-star; upon touching the-artifact, the-second-death-star has a-vision of the-second-death-star as a-sith.
leia, dying, calls to the-second-death-star through the-force; rey impales the-second-death-star as the-second-death-star is distracted.
also sensing leia's-death, rey realizes what the-second-death-star did to the-second-death-star and regrets impaling the-second-death-star.
the-second-death-star uses the-force to heal the-second-death-star and confesses that the-second-death-star did want to join the-second-death-star as ben-solo before escaping aboard the-second-death-star tie fighter.
disturbed by her-sith-lineage, rey exiles herself on ahch-to.
luke's-force-spirit encourages her to face palpatine and gives her-leia's-lightsaber and palpatine old-x-wing.
rey departs for exegol with the-wayfinder from ren's-ship.
meanwhile, ren resumes ren true identity as ben-solo.
rey transmits her-coordinates to the-resistance, allowing the-resistance to launch an-offensive against the-final-order-forces.
rey confronts palpatine, who demands rey kill him in anger for him spirit to pass into rey, making rey "empress palpatine".
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who restore her-strength.
palpatine attacks palpatine with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine and palpatine.
ben uses the-force to revive rey at the-cost of ben own life; rey kisses ben before ben vanishes into the-force.
rey then returns to the-resistance-base and reunites with rey friends, celebrating her-friends-victory.
sometime later, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries the-skywalker-lightsabers, having built the-skywalker-lightsabers own in a-golden-color.
a-passerby asks rey a-passerby name; after seeing the-force-spirits of luke and leia, a-passerby responds, "rey skywalker".
the-novelization of the-rise of skywalker reveals that rey's-father was a-nonidentical-clone of palpatine.
rey makes a-brief-cameo as a-disembodied-voice in the-television-series star-wars-rebels, in the-episode "a-world between worlds".
in the-episode, set 16 years before rey-birth and 35 years before the-force awakens, the-young-padawan ezra-bridger briefly hears some of rey-lines from the-film (specifically rey speaking to the-unconscious-finn at the-end) in the-world between worlds, a-dimension that exists outside of time and space.
rey stars in the-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny, voiced by daisy-ridley.
the-character of rey appears in the-video-games disney infinity 3.0, lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens, and star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017),
the-character of rey was also introduced as a-player-"skin" in the-game fortnite.
the-character and ridley's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim.
joe-morgenstern of the-wall-street-journal proclaimed that rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley] must have been born with plus the skill she must have acquired as a-young-actress coming up in england," and stating, "it's hard to imagine what the-movie—and the sequels to come—might have been if rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley]'d cast the-wrong-person, but here ridley is in all ridley unassuming glory, and all's right with the-galaxy."
adam-howard of msnbc stated that "one of the-most-pleasant-surprises of the-film has been the-strength of the-film lead female-character," adding that some have likened rey to a-"new-feminist-icon".
relatedly, emily-rome of hitfix argued that rey is "everything we wanted in a-star-wars-female-character," praising ridley for being a-character that is "independent, skilled, scrappy, tough, and doesn't need saving."
in a-personal-essay, nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly wrote about nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly daughters feeling empowered after viewing the-film, stating, "they never commented on how pretty rey is.
they never had to flinch because rey was a-sexual-object to some-man in power.
megan-garber of the-atlantic wrote that rey "proves megan-garber of the-atlantic to be, in extremely-short-order, extremely adept as a-fighter".
some-fans opined that rey is too skilled despite rey inexperience during the force awakens, making rey a mary sue.
rome wrote that "the-speed with which rey mastered jedi-mind-tricks and lightsaber fighting with zero-training is the-stuff of fan-fiction.
rey is geek-feminist-wish-fulfillment."
tasha-robinson of the-verge said that rey "keeps falling into standard-issue damsel-in-distress situations, then capably rescuing herself."
j.-j.-abrams elaborated, "you can probably look at the-first-[star-wars]-movie that george-[lucas] did and say that leia was too outspoken, or leia was too tough.
adrienne-tyler of screen-rant argued rey's-abilities are explained in the-rise of skywalker as resulting from the-pair forming a-dyad in the-force, sharing the-same-fighting-capabilities.
rey has also been compared to the-titular-character from the-hayao-miyazaki-anime-film-nausicaä of the-valley of the-wind (1984).richard-roeper described ridley's-portrayal of rey as "a-breakout-performance", continuing by calling the-character "tough and resourceful and smart and brave".
the-first-reel-women in technology-award for a-fictional-character was awarded to the-character ".
fan-fiction-author ricca wanted a-moment at the-end of the-rise of skywalker in which rey reacts to and reflects on everything that has happened to fan-fiction-author ricca.
the-most-popular-theories were that rey's-parentage is the-daughter of luke-skywalker or han-solo, or is obi-wan-kenobi's-granddaughter (because of a-scene where rey hears kenobi's-echoed-voice following a-vision in the force awakens).
the-view that rey's-parentage is luke's-daughter was especially prominent, with fans and critics highlighting their-story-arc-similarities, star-wars being a-luke-skywalker-saga, rey having a-strong-attachment to luke's-lightsaber, and being exceptionally strong with the-force without any-training.
some fan theories about rey's-parentage pointed to "rey's-theme" featured in john-williams'-score of the force awakens, as the-theme shared similarities with the-themes for darth-vader and luke.
abrams stated that abrams intentionally withheld rey's-last-name and background in the force awakens.
abrams said that abrams felt that the-origin of kylo-ren was the-only-thing that could be revealed in kylo-ren film and that kylo-ren knew "quite a bit" about rey's-origin but would give courtesy to the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson by not saying any more.
episode-ix-director-colin-trevorrow stated that the-answer of rey's-origin would be "deeply and profoundly satisfying" and that rey is "important in this-universe, not just in the-context of the force awakens, but in the-entire-galaxy.
in the-last-jedi, rey is coaxed by kylo-ren into admitting that kylo-ren were "nobodies".
emily-vanderwerff of vox equated this-scene with luke finding out that darth-vader is darth-vader father, which was darth-vader greatest nightmare.
emily-vanderwerff of vox added that while kylo-ren "has every-reason to be lying" about this, to emily-vanderwerff of vox mind
josh-spiegel of the-hollywood-reporter stated that although some-fans might be disappointed by ren's-revelation, it "fits in perfectly" with the-film's through line that one can be "both exceptionally gifted in the-force and also not a skywalker" because "the-spirit of the-jedi extends ... to anyone with a-gift and the-power to believe.
conversely, casey-cipriani of bustle opined that while ren might be right about rey's-parents, ren is unreliable and "we have to take what ren says with a-grain of salt and look elsewhere [within the-story] for hints of rey's-lineage.
before the-release of the-rise of skywalker, abrams said that "there's more to the-story than you've seen," though, according to ridley, the-facts presented in the-jedi would not change.
rey being revealed as a-palpatine in the-rise of skywalker received a-mixed-reception.
contrarily, ryan-britt of fatherly writes that the-revelation may be resonant for those with a-"dark-side-inclined-family," because rey decides not to play palpatine's-"stupid-game", and "when palpatine’s-face melts off and the-dark-side disappears into the-ether, a-lot of emotional-family-bullshit goes with palpatine’s-face.
inverse similarly argues that the-end of the-film sees rey reject "any-power rey grandfather held over rey" and "bury the-past", in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
james-hunt of screen-rant argues that the-idea of an-obi-wan-connection "would've been an-equally-bad-decision," because it would still mean her-character "is powerful because of her-lineage, rather than rey simply being powerful because the-force chose her.
it continues the-focus on nostalgia and trying to connect everything, rather than letting rey be wholly new."
rey in the starwars.com databank rey on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise, centered on a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980), and return of the-jedi (1983).
william-shakespeare's-the-merry-rise of skywalker (2020) by ian-doescher (35-aby) ==
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
the-force awakens novelization.
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
the-rise of darth-vader (2005), by james-luceno (19-bby)
the-last-jedi (2013), by michael-reaves-&-maya-kaathryn-bohnhoff-(18–17-bby) ====
the last of the-last-jedi by jude-watson (18-bby) ====
the-life of luke-skywalker (15-bby – 4-aby) ====
the-life of luke-skywalker (2009), by ryder-windham-(y) ====
the-force unleashed (2008), by sean-williams (3-2-bby)
the-force unleashed ii
the-glove of darth-vader (1992) (y)
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor ====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor (2008), by matthew-stover (5.5-aby)
(a)-champions of the-force (1994), by kevin-j.-anderson (11-aby)
heirs of the-force (1995), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
legacy of the-force ===
the-finale, in which taylor comes upon a-ruined-statue of liberty and realizes maurice-evans has been on earth all along, became the-series'-defining-scene and one of the-most-iconic-images in 1960s film.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays earned low-ratings during the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays run, a fact the-production-team attributed to repetitive-storytelling and too-little-screen-time for the-apes who made the-franchise famous.
given the-considerable-production-costs, cbs canceled the-show after 14-episodes, the-last-airing on december 20, 1974.in 1981, fox reedited ten of the-episodes into five-television-films.
greene argues that the-show emphasized the-theme of racial-conflict less than the-films had, though the-episodes "the-trap" and "the-liberator" made it a central focus.
the-show did not achieve particularly-strong-ratings.
the-show considered producing a-second-three-episode-season to complete the-story, but this never materialized.
scientists go to an-ape-astronaut from a-distant-planet's-planet, where apes hunt humans; scientists locate a-cure but return to find earth overrun by simians.
in the-game, the-player controls taylor as the-player fights apes across several-levels inspired by the-film to reach the-statue of liberty.
the-last-boy on earth and the-japanese-franchise-time of the-apes, which concern human-protagonists in post-apocalyptic-worlds ruled by talking animals.
note: a-gray-cell indicates the-character does not appear in that-film.
their-first-appearance is in star-wars (1977) when luke and c-3po search for r2-d2 on tatooine.
the-force to enhance aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax senses and heal aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax.
porgs are introduced in the-last-jedi and are known for how "insanely cute"
the-creatures, who dwell on the-cliffs of the-island where skywalker lives in exile, could build nests and fly.
a-porg also appears in the-rise of skywalker when rey travels to ahch-to.
having been spread throughout the-galaxy by freighters and cargo-ships, duracrete-slugs dig tunnels into building-foundations and feed off of the-concrete in there.
massive,-furred-predators found predominantly on planets in the-filve-sector and bothan-worlds, and can grow more-than-3.5-m (11.5 ft) tall and 5 m
the-force unleashed-ii ===
are self-inflating-creatures, used in gullipud-ball-games on planets like naboo, manaan, selonia and drall.
in the-mandalorian-chapter 9, the-mandalorian uses tusken to speak with they.
found across the-galaxy (having spread prolifically from their-original-system), mynocks tend to flock together, migrating annually in large-groups.
giant-manta-ray-like-creatures that first appeared in the-clone-wars-tv-series live in the-vacuum of space, use nebulas as breeding-grounds and giant-manta-ray-like-creatures that first appeared in the-clone-wars-tv-series have been found on planets such as the-coral-moon of rugosa and the-moon of rishi.
their raised on planets such as alderaan for their-delicious-meat, although their have a-bad-odor.
it was first seen in return of the-jedi wherein luke-skywalker is attacked by one at the-behest of jabba the-hutt.
luke kills the-creature by triggering a-heavy-steel-gate to fall and crush the-creature head.
according to luke-skywalker in star wars episode iv: a new hope, they attain approximately-two-meters in length.
introduced in star-wars: the-force awakens (2015), the-force are pack-hunters.
many-jedi have fallen to the-dark-side on many-jedi quest to rid the-galaxy of these-abominations.
the-wampa made the-wampa first appearance in the empire strikes back (1980), as a-predator that attacks luke and eats luke tauntaun.
the-supposed-reason for the-force-bubble is that the-force-bubble acts as a-way to hide from the-other-unique-carnivores of myrkr that use the-force to hunt down prey, such as the-vornskr.
before study was over, palpatine ordered the-zillo-beast to be killed anyway, but the-zillo-beast broke from the-zillo-beast prison to hunt palpatine down in the-nearby-senate-building.
at the-end of the-episode, palpatine informs doctor-sionver-boll-doctor-sionver-boll wants the-zillo-beast cloned.
the-show also works to connect the-show to the-history of rocketry-and-space-flight.
the-force awakens is a-lego-themed-action-adventure-video-game developed by tt-fusion, based on the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game includes content which covers the-period between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
the-game features over-200-playable-characters, including rey, finn, captain-phasma, poe-dameron, han-solo, kylo-ren and droids, such as c-3po and bb-8, as well as ships, both regular-sized (which can only be used in certain-misisons), and miniaturized.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game also bridged the-gap between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens, with lucasfilm allowing for creative-freedom in the-additional-content that will explore the-characters'-backstories.
poe's-quest for survival" (which depicts poe-dameron's-escape from jakku upon being separated from finn and presumed dead in the-main-storyline).
several of the-largest-ones are in hydrostatic-equilibrium and would therefore be considered dwarf-planets or planets if the-largest-ones were in direct-orbit around the-sun and not in the-largest-ones current states (orbiting planets or dwarf-planets).
earth has one-moon, the-largest-moon of any-rocky-planet in the-solar-system.
earth also has at-least-two-co-orbitals: the-asteroids 3753-cruithne and 2002
( see other-moons of earth and quasi-satellite.)
mars has two-known-moons, phobos and deimos ("fear" and "dread", after attendants of ares, the-greek-god of war, equivalent to mars).
as the-below-graph demonstrates, the-absolute-magnitude (total-inherent-brightness, abbreviated-h) of moons we have detected around planets peaks at h = 17 for jupiter, h = 16 for saturn, h = 13 for uranus, and h = 11 for neptune.
this is a-list of the-recognized-moons of the-planets and of the-largest-potential-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system, ordered by the-largest-potential-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system official roman numeral designations.
list of black holes list of dwarf planets list of galaxies list of iau designated constellations
set shortly after dark-empire, it relates that imperial-guard-carnor-jax betrayed the-cloned-palpatine and palpatine guards in an-attempt to consolidate palpatine own-power.
darth-vader, a-series set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, and showing how darth-vader is dealing with darth-vader past as anakin-skywalker.
in this-version, luke-skywalker is more mature and a jedi, and the-main-protagonist is named annikin starkiller.
meanwhile, with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.early reports in may 2014 suggested that marvel would announce two new ongoing star-wars comic series at the-san-diego-comic-con.
the-initial-series, star-wars, was released in january 2015, with darth-vader debuting in february.
the-flagship-series will expand on stories like how the-demoralized-ragtag-band of rebels grows into the-massive-fleet that attacks the-second-death-star , how the-plan to rescue han-solo from jabba the-hutt is formed, how leia balances leia personal desires to save han with leia responsibilities to the-rebellion, luke's-growth as a-jedi while coming to an-understanding of darth-vader's-reveal of darth-vader's-heritage, and the-evolution of lando-calrissian from selfish-betrayer to trusted general.
darth-vader (2015) ====== ======
darth-vader
the-character had been introduced by zahn's-heir to the-empire-trilogy in the-early-1990s, now part of the-legends-line, and was re-introduced in the-new-canon in star-wars-rebels.
at a-panel discussing the-journey to the-rise of skywalker-publishing-program at san-diego-comic-con 2019, the four-issue star wars: journey to the-rise of skywalker – allegiance-miniseries was announced.
it will help cover a-one-year-period during the-time between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker.
the-rise of kylo-ren premiered on december 16, 2019.
age of resistance by writer-tom-taylor will focus on the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-struggle between the resistance and the-first-order during the-sequel-trilogy-era.
idw has also published graphic-novel-adaptations of each-star-wars-film since the-force awakens.
the-solar-system is the-gravitationally-bound-system of the-sun and the-objects that orbit the-solar-system, either directly or indirectly.
of the-objects that orbit the-sun the-sun directly, the largest are the-eight-planets, with the-remainder being smaller-objects, the-dwarf-planets and small-the-solar-system-bodies.
of the-objects that orbit the-sun indirectly—the-natural-satellites—two are larger than the-smallest-planet, mercury.
the-solar-system formed 4.6 billion years ago from the-gravitational-collapse of a-giant-interstellar-molecular-cloud.
the-four-smaller-inner-planets, mercury, venus, earth and mars, are terrestrial-planets, being primarily composed of rock and metal.
the-solar-system also contains smaller-objects.
the-asteroid-belt, which lies between the-orbits of mars and jupiter, mostly contains objects composed, like the-terrestrial-planets, of rock and metal.
the-solar-system is located in the-orion-arm, 26,000 light-years from the-center of the-milky-way-galaxy.
most people up to the-late-middle-ages–renaissance believed earth to be stationary at the-centre of the-universe and categorically different from the-divine-or-ethereal-objects that moved through the-sky.
in the-17th-century, galileo discovered that the-sun was marked with sunspots, and that jupiter had four-satellites in orbit around galileo.
the-principal-component of the-solar-system is the-sun, a-g2-main-sequence-star that contains 99.86% of the-system's-known-mass and dominates it gravitationally.
the-remaining-objects of the-solar-system (including the-four-terrestrial-planets, the-dwarf-planets, moons, asteroids, and comets) together comprise less-than-0.002% of the-solar-system total mass.
most-large-objects in orbit around the-sun lie near the-plane of earth's-orbit, known as the-ecliptic.
as a-result of the-formation of the-solar-system, planets (and most-other-objects) orbit the-sun in the-same-direction that the-sun is rotating (counter-clockwise, as viewed from above earth's-north-pole).
most of the-larger-moons orbit the-larger-moons planets in this-prograde-direction (with triton being the-largest-retrograde-exception) and most-larger-objects rotate most-larger-objects in the-same-direction (with venus being a-notable-retrograde-exception).
the-overall-structure of the-charted-regions of the-solar-system consists of the-sun, four-relatively-small-inner-planets surrounded by a-belt of mostly-rocky-asteroids, and four-giant-planets surrounded by the-kuiper-belt of mostly-icy-objects.
astronomers sometimes informally divide the-overall-structure of the-charted-regions of the-solar-system into separate-regions.
the-solar-system includes the-four-terrestrial-planets and the-asteroid-belt.
the-solar-system the-solar-system is beyond the-asteroids, including the-four-giant-planets.
since the-discovery of the-asteroid-belt, the-outermost-parts of the-solar-system are considered a distinct region consisting of the-objects beyond neptune.
most of the-planets in the-solar-system have secondary-systems of the-planets in the-solar-system own, being orbited by planetary-objects called natural satellites, or moons (two of which, titan and ganymede, are larger than the-planet-mercury).
the-planets in the-solar-system have planetary-rings, thin-bands of tiny-particles that orbit the-planets in the-solar-system in unison.
following kepler's-laws, each-object travels along an-ellipse with the-sun at one-focus.
objects closer to the-sun (with smaller-semi-major-axes) travel more quickly because they are more affected by the-sun's gravity.
on an-elliptical-orbit, a-body's-distance from the-sun varies over the-course of the-sun year.
a-body's-closest-approach to the-sun
the-sun is called the-sun perihelion, whereas the-sun most-distant-point from the-sun is called the-sun aphelion.
the-positions of the-bodies in the-solar-system can be predicted using numerical-models.
although the-sun dominates the-system by mass, the-sun accounts for only-about-2% of the-angular-momentum.
objects farther from the-sun are composed largely of materials with lower-melting-points.
the-boundary in the-solar-system beyond which those-volatile-substances could condense is known as the-frost-line, and the-boundary in the-solar-system beyond which those-volatile-substances could condense lies at roughly-5-au from the-sun.
the-distance from earth to the-sun is 1-astronomical-unit [au] (150,000,000-km; 93,000,000-mi).
for comparison, the-radius of the-sun is 0.0047-au (700,000-km).
thus, the-sun occupies 0.00001% (10−5-%) of the-volume of a-sphere with a-radius the-size of earth's-orbit, whereas earth's-volume is roughly-one-millionth (10−6) that of the-sun.
jupiter, the-largest-planet, is 5.2-astronomical-units (780,000,000-km) from the-sun the-sun and has a-radius of 71,000-km (0.00047-au), whereas the-most-distant-planet, neptune, is 30-au (4.5×109-km) from the-sun.
for example, venus is approximately-0.33-au farther out from the-sun than mercury, whereas saturn is 4.3 au out from jupiter, and neptune lies 10.5-au out from uranus.
some-solar-system-models attempt to convey the-relative-scales involved in the-solar-system on human-terms.
if the-sun–neptune-distance is scaled to 100-metres, then the-sun the-sun would be about-3-cm in diameter (roughly-two-thirds-the-diameter of a-golf-ball), the-giant-planets would be all smaller than about-3-mm, and earth's-diameter along with that of the-other-terrestrial-planets would be smaller than a-flea (0.3-mm) at this-scale.
the-solar-system formed 4.568 billion years ago from the-gravitational-collapse of a-region within a-large-molecular-cloud.
because metallic-elements only comprised a-very-small-fraction of the-solar-nebula, the-rocky-planets of mercury, venus, earth, and mars could not grow very large.
the-giant-planets (jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune) formed further out, beyond the-frost-line, the-point between the-orbits of mars and jupiter where material is cool enough for volatile-icy-compounds to remain solid.
leftover-debris that never became planets congregated in regions such as the-asteroid-belt, kuiper-belt, and oort-cloud.
the-temperature, reaction-rate, pressure, and density increased until hydrostatic-equilibrium was achieved: the-thermal-pressure equalled the-force of gravity.
at this-point, the-sun became a-main-sequence-star.
the-main-sequence-phase, from beginning to end, will last about-10-billion-years for the-sun the-sun compared to around-two-billion-years for all-other-phases of the-sun's pre-remnant life combined.
solar-wind from the-sun
the-sun created the-heliosphere and swept away the-remaining-gas and dust from the-protoplanetary-disc into interstellar-space, ending the-planetary-formation-process.
the-sun the-sun is growing brighter; early in the-sun main-sequence life the-sun brightness was 70% that of what it is today.
the-solar-system will remain roughly as we know the-solar-system today until the-hydrogen in the-core of the-sun has been entirely converted to helium, which will occur roughly-5-billion-years from now.
at this-time, the-core of the-sun the-sun the-sun will contract with hydrogen-fusion occurring along a-shell surrounding the-inert-helium, and the-energy-output will be much greater than at present.
the-outer-layers of the-sun will expand to roughly 260 times the-sun current diameter, and the-sun will become a-red-giant.
because of the-sun vastly-increased-surface-area, the-surface of the-sun the-sun will be considerably cooler (2,600 k at the-sun coolest) than the-sun is on the-main-sequence.
the-expanding-sun is expected to vaporize mercury and render earth uninhabitable.
the-sun is the-solar-system's-star and by far the-solar-system's-most-massive-component.
the-sun is a-g2-type-main-sequence-star.
the-sun are rare, whereas-substantially-dimmer-and-cooler-stars, known as red-dwarfs, make up 85% of the-stars in the-milky-way.
the-sun is a-population i star; the-sun has a-higher-abundance of elements heavier than hydrogen and helium ("metals" in astronomical-parlance) than the older population ii stars.
the-vast-majority of the-solar-system consists of a-near-vacuum known as the-interplanetary-medium.
along with light, the-sun radiates a-continuous-stream of charged-particles (a-plasma) known as the-solar-wind.
venus and mars do not have magnetic-fields, and as a-result the-solar-wind is causing venus and mars atmospheres to gradually bleed away into space.
the-heliosphere and planetary-magnetic-fields (for those-planets that have them) partially shield the-solar-system from high-energy-interstellar-particles called cosmic rays.
the-density of cosmic-rays in the-interstellar-medium and the-strength of the-sun's-magnetic-field-change on very-long-timescales, so the-level of cosmic-ray-penetration in the-solar-system varies, though by how much is unknown.
the first, the zodiacal dust cloud, lies in the-solar-system and causes the-zodiacal-light.
three of the-four-inner-planets (venus, earth and mars) have atmospheres substantial enough to generate weather; all have impact-craters and tectonic-surface-features, such as rift-valleys and volcanoes.
the-term-inner-planet should not be confused with inferior-planet, which designates those-planets that are closer to the-sun than earth is (i.e.-mercury and venus).
mercury is the-closest-planet to the-sun the-sun and on-average,-all-seven-other-planets.
the-smallest-planet in the-solar-system (0.055-m⊕), mercury has no-natural-satellites.
venus (0.7-au from the-sun) is close in size to earth (0.815 m⊕) and, like earth, has a-thick-silicate-mantle around an-iron-core, a-substantial-atmosphere, and evidence of internal-geological-activity.
earth ====
earth (1-au from the-sun) is the largest and densest of the-inner-planets, the only one known to have current-geological-activity, and the-only-place where life is known to exist.
earth (1-au from the-sun)
mars (1.5-au from the-sun) is smaller than earth and venus (0.107 m⊕).
the-asteroid-belt occupies the-orbit between mars and jupiter, between 2.3-and-3.3-au from the-sun.
hilda-asteroids are in a-2:3-resonance with jupiter; that is, hilda-asteroids go around the-sun three times for every two jupiter orbits.
the-outer-region of the-solar-system is home to the-giant-planets and their-large-moons.
due to the-centaurs and many-short-period-comets greater-distance from the-sun, the-solid-objects in the-solar-system contain a-higher-proportion of volatiles, such as water, ammonia, and methane than those of the-solar-system because the-lower-temperatures allow these-compounds to remain solid.
jupiter and saturn are together more-than-400-times-the-mass of earth and consist overwhelmingly of the-gases-hydrogen and helium, hence jupiter and saturn designation as gas-giants.
the-term superior-planet designates planets outside earth's-orbit and thus includes both-the-outer-planets and mars.
although saturn has 60% of jupiter's-volume, it is less than a third as massive, at 95 m⊕. saturn is the-only-planet of the-solar-system that is less dense than water.
titan, the-second-largest-moon in the-solar-system, is larger than mercury and the-only-satellite in the-solar-system with a-substantial-atmosphere.
uniquely among the-outer-planets, it orbits the-sun on the-sun side; the-sun axial tilt is over ninety-degrees to the-ecliptic.
the-sun has a-much-colder-core than the-other-giant-planets and radiates very-little-heat into space.
when a-comet enters the-inner-solar-system, a-comet proximity to the-sun causes a-comet icy surface to sublimate and ionise, creating a-coma: a-long-tail of gas and dust often visible to the-naked-eye.
beyond the-orbit of neptune lies the-area of the-"trans-neptunian-region", with the-doughnut-shaped-kuiper-belt, home of pluto and several-other-dwarf-planets, and an-overlapping-disc of scattered-objects, which is tilted toward the-plane of the-solar-system and reaches much further out than the-kuiper-belt.
the-entire-region appears to consist overwhelmingly of many-thousands of small-worlds—the largest having a-diameter only-a-fifth that of earth and a-mass far smaller than that of the-moon—composed mainly of rock and ice.
pluto has a-relatively-eccentric-orbit inclined 17-degrees to the-ecliptic-plane and ranging from 29.7-au from the-sun at perihelion (within the-orbit of neptune) to 49.5-au at aphelion.
pluto has a-3:2-resonance with neptune, meaning that pluto orbits twice round the-sun for every-three-neptunian-orbits.
the-point at which the-solar-system ends and interstellar-space begins is not precisely defined because the-solar-system outer boundaries are shaped by two-forces, the-solar-wind and the-sun's-gravity.
the-collision occurs at the-termination-shock, which is roughly-80–100-au from the-sun upwind of the-interstellar-medium and roughly-200-au from the-sun downwind.
beyond the-heliopause, at around-230-au, lies the-bow-shock, a-plasma-"wake" left by the-sun as the-sun travels through the-milky-way.
the-sun is expected that nasa's-voyager-2-spacecraft, as they pass the-heliopause, will transmit valuable-data on radiation-levels and solar-wind to earth.
how well the-heliosphere shields the-solar-system from cosmic-rays is poorly understood.
the-oort-cloud is a-hypothetical-spherical-cloud of up-to-a-trillion-icy-objects that is thought to be the-source for all-long-period-comets and to surround the-solar-system at roughly-50,000-au-(around-1-light-year-(ly)), and possibly to as far as 100,000-au (1.87 ly).
much of the-solar-system is still unknown.
the-solar-system is located in the-milky-way, a-barred-spiral-galaxy with a-diameter of about-100,000-light-years containing more-than-100-billion-stars.
the-sun resides in one of the-milky-way's-outer-spiral-arms, known as the-orion–cygnus-arm or local-spur.
the-sun lies about-26,660-light-years from the-galactic-centre, and the-sun speed around the-center of the-milky-way is about-247-km/s, so that the-sun completes one-revolution every 210 million years.
the-solar-system's-orbit is close to circular, and orbits near the-sun are at roughly-the-same-speed as that of the-spiral-arms.
therefore, the-sun the-sun passes through arms only rarely.
because spiral-arms are home to a-far-larger-concentration of supernovae, gravitational-instabilities, and radiation that could disrupt the-solar-system, this has given earth long-periods of stability for life to evolve.
however, the-changing-position of the-solar-system relative to other-parts of the-milky-way could explain periodic-extinction-events on earth, according to the-shiva-hypothesis or related-theories.
the-solar-system lies well outside the-star-crowded-environs of the-galactic-centre.
the-solar-system is in the-local-interstellar-cloud or local-fluff.
the-solar-system is thought to be near the-neighbouring-g-cloud
but it is not known if the-solar-system is embedded in the-local-interstellar-cloud, or if it is in the-region where the-local-interstellar-cloud and g-cloud are interacting.
the-stars next closest to the-sun
the-sun are the-red-dwarfs barnard's-star (at 5.9-ly), wolf 359 (7.8-ly), and lalande 21185 (8.3 ly).
the-closest-solitary-sun-like-star to the-solar-system is tau-ceti at 11.9-light-years.
the-solar-system has roughly-80% of the-sun's-mass but only-60% of the-solar-system luminosity.
the-closest-known-free-floating-planetary-mass-object to the-sun is wise 0855−0714, an-object with a-mass less-than-10-jupiter-masses roughly 7 light-years away.
compared to many-other-planetary-systems, the-solar-system stands out in lacking planets interior to the-orbit of mercury.
the-solar-system also lacks super-earths (planet-nine could be a-super-earth beyond the-known-solar-system).
uncommonly, the-solar-system has only-small-rocky-planets and large-gas-giants; elsewhere-planets of intermediate-size are typical—both rocky and gas—so there is no-"gap" as seen between the-size of earth and of neptune (with a-radius 3.8 times as large).
this led to the-hypothesis that all-planetary-systems start with many-close-in-planets, and that typically-a-sequence of all-planetary-systems collisions causes consolidation of mass into few-larger-planets, but in case of the-solar-system the-collisions caused all-planetary-systems destruction and ejection.
a-cosmic-history of the-solar-system a-tediously-accurate-map of the-solar-system (web based scroll map scaled to the moon being 1 pixel)
since palpatine's-takeover, palpatine believes palpatine power is absolute.
palpatine controls everything, including the-senate.
palpatine is the-leader of the-evil-sith.
and now palpatine wishes to control ferus.
but ferus does not want to help palpatine, until palpatine threatens those-people closest to palpatine heart.
palpatine wishes to use ferus as an-undercover-agent – a-double-agent.
things go wrong when palpatine comes to samaria, ordering ferus, who is a-double-agent, to kill palpatine companions.
secret-weapon (2007) === begins on the-planet-bellassa, where parts of a-secret-weapon is being built by the-galactic-empire, with darth-vader and grand-moff-tarkin overlooking the-process to make sure that the-process remains secret.
ferus joins the-dark-side in the-same-way anakin was seduced by the-dark-side, and palpatine promises to give anakin the-power over life and death.
ferus goes through lesson one which palpatine does not attend.
ferus used the-force to distract zan-arbor and escapes with ferus.
star-wars-author-george-lucas included a-planet called alderaan in early-treatments; in the-star-wars (1973), alderaan is a-city-planet and the-capital-planet of the-galaxy (prefiguring the-planet-coruscant which later featured in the-films).
early-sketches commissioned by lucas from conceptual-illustrator-ralph-mcquarrie show a-design which very closely resembles cloud-city, as featured in the-later-sequel, the empire strikes back.
in lucas's-third-draft, the-imperial-city of alderaan has become the-home-world of the-sith-lords, and darth-vader holds princess-leia captive here.
lucas continued to hone lucas script, aided by screenwriters-willard-huyck and gloria-katz; names of planets and characters were revised and the-narrative was improved, and by the-fourth-draft, scenes on the-imperial-capital-planet had been moved to a-space-station called the death star and the peaceful world destroyed by the-empire had taken the-name alderaan.
the-opening-scene depicts the-capture of a-small-spaceship from alderaan, the-tantive-iv, by the-galactic-empire, and introduces the-character of princess-leia-organa, a-princess of the-royal-house of alderaan who is played by carrie-fisher.
the-planet is not featured in the-2016-film rogue-one, but the-character bail-organa makes an-appearance, stating that the-character bail-organa will return to alderaan to wait for the-character bail-organa daughter, leia, to bring the-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi.
in star-wars #33 (2017), leia tells luke that sometimes leia can see alderaan among the-stars as, from certain-perspectives in the-galaxy, alderaan light has not ceased to emit.
according to kevin-j.-anderson's-the-illustrated-star-wars-universe (1995) and wallace, kolins and mckinney's-star-wars: the-essential-guide to planets and moons (1998), alderaan is covered by wild-grasslands, plains, forests and mountain-ranges.
the-player starts the-game with a-command-center, a-scout, and three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) for whichever of the-six-original-factions three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) choose.
the-player searches and gathers resources such as food, carbon, nova-crystals, and ore and then uses the-resources in order to create new-buildings, combat-units, and workers.
the-player can build separate-units at separate-buildings designed specifically for different-types of units.
the-player can advance through the-four-tech-levels by paying a-certain-amount of resources.
if victory is set to standard, the-player can win in three-different-ways.
the-player may win by destroying all of the-enemies-buildings and units with all of the-enemies-buildings and units-army.
also, the-player can use a-jedi/sith to bring all of the-holocrons to the-jedi/sith-temple and preserve them for 200-"days".
if a-monument that is only available at tech level 4 stays standing for 300-days, then the-player wins.
the-campaign sees the-player assume the-role of chewbacca's-father, attichitchuk.
in the-campaign, the-player gradually learns the-game's-play-mechanics as attichitchuk marshals a-wookiee-army to force the-trade-federation off alaris-prime.
trade federation - the-campaign has the-player assume the-role of oom-9, a-droid-ground-commander leading the-trade-federation's-actions during the-blockade of naboo in star-wars:
galactic-empire---the-imperial-campaign begins just after the-events of a-new-hope, as darth-vader personally leads the-assault on the-rebels'-massassi ruins base and captures general-jan-dodonna.
a-mission to protect an-at-at-prototype is the-imperial-attack on hoth, where the-player has a-chance to destroy echo-base and prevent han-solo and company's-escape.
the-jedi-master kills the-chiss-commander, but the-jedi-master brush with the-dark-side of the-force leaves the-jedi-master with enough-guilt to go on a-self-imposed-exile.
echuu later meets with princess-leia on krant during the-rebel-campaign, where darth-vader kills him.
the-player-character, as a-jedi, must venture to different-planets in the-galaxy to defeat malak.
feats and force powers are generally unlocked upon level-up, while the-player is given skill-points to distribute among feats and force powers skills every level.
while each-round's-duration is a-fixed-short-interval of real-time, the-player can configure the-combat-system to pause at specific-events or the end of each-round, or set the-combat-system to never automatically pause, giving the-illusion of real-time-combat.
for much of the-game, the-player can have up-to-two-companions in the-player party.
they can be manually controlled by the-player, or act autonomously if the-player does not give they any-input.
outside of combat, the-companions will randomly engage the-player or each other in dialogue, sometimes unlocking additional-quests.
the-companions will also participate in conversations the-player has with other-non-player-characters.
following each-statement, the-player can select from a-list of menu-responses.
the-player can participate in swoop racing to earn money, and sometimes interplanetary-travel will be interrupted by enemy-starfighters, which begins a-minigame where the-player controls a-turret to shoot down the-opposing-starcraft.
the-player can also engage in a-card-game known as pazaak, which is similar to the-game of blackjack, to gamble money.
with no-other-options, trask sacrifices trask while the-player continues to make their-way to the-escape-pods.
the-player's-character and their-companions search planets across the-galaxy—dantooine, manaan, tatooine, kashyyyk, and korriban—for more-information about the-star-forge, gaining new-companions along the-way such as the-cathar-jedi-juhani, assassin-droid hk-47, and 'grey'-jedi-jolee-bindo.
bastila sacrifices bastila so the-player can escape, and is subsequently turned to the-dark-side by darth-malak.
on the-light-side-route, the-player kills or redeems bastila, defeats darth-malak, destroys the-star-forge, and is hailed as a-saviour and hero.
, dust blows across tatooine and puffs of sand-rise as the-player walks across the-seabed.
the-pc-version features an-additional-location the-player can visit and more npcs, items, and weapons; these-additions were later made available on the-pc-version through xbox live.
planets in science fiction are fictional-planets that appear in various-media of the-science-fiction-genre as story-settings or depicted-locations.
before galileo turned his-telescope to the-heavens, the-planets of the-solar-system were not widely recognized as worlds, or places where a-person could potentially set foot; the-planets of the-solar-system were visible to observers merely as bright-points of light, distinguishable from stars only by the-planets of the-solar-system motion.
c. 150), the-alexandrian-astronomer whose-works were the-basis of all-european-astronomy throughout the-middle-ages and renaissance, planets in science fiction were lights set into a-series of transparent-spheres turning around the-earth, which was the-center of the-one-and-only-universe.
planets as places ==
ludovico-ariosto, in ludovico-ariosto epic-orlando-furioso (1513), jestingly sent ludovico-ariosto hero astolfo to a-moon where everything lost on earth eventually turns up, guarded by saint-peter; but it was not until galileo discovered (1609–1610) that a-moon where everything lost on earth had surface-features, and that the-planets could, at least, be resolved into disks, that the-concept that the-planets were real-physical-bodies came to be taken seriously.
in 1543, nicolaus-copernicus had already posited that the-planets orbited the-sun as the-earth does; combined, these-two-concepts led to the-thought that the-planets might be "worlds" similar to the-earth.
in 1877, asaph-hall reported two-moons of mars and giovanni-schiaparelli found the-surface of mars to be adorned with continents, seas, and channels, and a-very-suitable-habitat for life.
from the-beginning of the-1880s, fictions – some more, some less scientific – involving travels to and from mars began to be produced in great-quantities, even though the-observations of percival-lowell required reassessment of mars as a-more-marginal-desert-planet.
mars remained a-favored-destination for fictional-travellers down to the-early-1960s (see mars in fiction).
since probes revealed the-absence of any-indications of intelligent-life on mars, mars mars has changed to a-possible-future-home for the-human-race, e.g. through terraforming.
venus was never quite so popular as mars, probably because mars obdurately refused to display any surface features (mars is covered with sulfuric-acid-clouds only dimly translucent to visible-light), making any-statement about mars nature disturbingly speculative.
various-planets of the-solar-system were used as settings for science-fiction-stories in the-first-half of the-20th-century; but dissatisfaction with the-limits imposed by science led many-writers early on to forsake the-solar-system for fictional-planets around distant-stars.
as increasing knowledge of the-solar-system made the-prospects of life in the-vicinity of earth marginal at best, the-extrasolar-planet has become almost-the-only-venue for contemporary-science-fiction.
in many-works of science-fiction, planets are only described casually, as points of origin and departure, or as interchangeable-backdrops for space-battles.
planets may be treated in different-ways depending both on the-interests of the-author and the-genre
while some-authors choose to treat a-planet in depth, considering a-planet to have a-wide-diversity of geography, climate, politics and culture, others prefer to characterize others planets by some-single-global-characteristic.
for planets from specific-fictional-milieux, use the-following-lists and categories: ===
planets of the-childe-cycle-dune (herbert) –
planets of the-hyperion-cantos-known-space (niven) –-known-space
lensman-series (smith) – lensman-night's-dawn (hamilton) – planets and habitats of the-night's-dawn-trilogy noon-universe (strugatsky) –
worldwar/colonization-series (turtledove) – planets controlled by the-race ===
who planets
fireball-xl5 – fireball-xl5 planets lexx – lexx-planets, fire and water (lexx)
star-wars-planets, list of star-wars-planets and moons stargate – list of stargate planets
shadow-raiders – list of shadow-raiders planets
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the earththe earth.
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the dying earth
the-ocean is much deeper than any on earth, making the-ocean only slightly more dense than earth despite a-greater-radius.
mars as a-desert-planet ====
before, and certainly after, the-results sent back by the-viking-landers, some-science-fiction set on mars portrayed some-science-fiction set on mars as a-desert-planet.
the-anime-series-cowboy-bebop repeatedly portrayed mars as a-prominent-colonized-world in the-21st-century.
it serves as a-central-hub for the-solar-system after earth was left mostly uninhabitable following the-warp-gateway-disaster.
leigh-brackett's-martian-stories, in which mars is largely desert with sporadic-oases of civilization.
ray-bradbury's-the-martian-chronicles-collection of short-stories depict mars as a-mostly-hospitable-desert home to first an-indigenous-martian-civilization, who are displaced by an-encroaching-homo-sapiens-population.
leigh-brackett's-martian-stories, in which mars is largely desert with sporadic-oases of civilization use a "cowboys vs indians" theme which benefits from the-red-desert-backdrop of mars.
kim-stanley-robinson's-mars-trilogy, where mars is gradually terraformed from a-frozen-desert-planet to a-more-hospitable-earthlike-environment.
martian-time-slip, by philip-k.-dick, in which mars has been colonized by earth's-un; scarce-water is closely apportioned, and the-president of the-water-workers-union is one of the-more-powerful-figures.
the-2000-film-mission to mars is about a-difficult-rescue-attempt following a-disaster during the-first-manned-nasa-voyage to this-red-wasteland that is mars; humanoid-martians are discovered to have once been native-inhabitants, and the-cydonia-mensae-'face-formation' is used as a-major-plot-device.
the-2000-film-red-planet is about a-terraforming-expedition from earth to mars gone awry due to voracious-indigenous-martian-insects; earth's australian and jordanian deserts were used as filming locations.
in the-star-trek-universe, mars is the-first-planet to be terraformed by the-people of earth, and by the-24th-century its-orbital-utopia-planitia-shipyards are a-key-starfleet-facility.
the-sands of mars by arthur-c.-clarke
total-recall, in which mars is inhabited by mutants and labourers, and air is supplied at a-tax.
ian-mcdonald's-novel-desolation-road depicts mars as a-desert-planet before being colonized by humans.
contains planets not found in the-preceding-lists.
belzagor — a-planet colonized by earth, whose-natives are the-elephant-like-nildoror, in downward to the earth by robert-silverberg.
bronson-alpha and bronson-beta — planets that enter the-solar-system in philip-gordon-wylie and edwin-balmer's-novel when worlds collide.
a-planet-22-light-years from earth in the-television-series earth 2.
a-lush-planet in the-homeworld-videogame, which the-player must seek.
melancholia — a-rogue-planet that collides with earth in the 2011 film melancholia.
minerva —-earthlike-planet occupying the-orbit of mars in the-alternate-universe of harry-turtledove's-a-world of difference.
planets named in the-television-series-war of the-worlds.
in the-computer-game-outpost 2, new-terra — is the-world chosen by humanity as new-terra — last-hope for survival, colonized by the-last-survivors of earth in starship-conestoga.
the-inhabitants attempt to conquer earth during the-30th-century.
peaceland –-home-planet of the-sakimori-family who fled to earth after it was destroyed, in the-1973-japanese-tv-series ryusei-ningen-zoon (meteor-man-zone).
a-planet the-character new-rat-city offers to take the-player in the-2012-twine-game-rat-chaos.
the-planet is largely barren on the-surface, with extensive-tunnels and advanced-technology, which has little-water, a-fact which causes its-people to attempt to invade earth using first-king-ghidorah, and later-godzilla and rodan as mind-controlled-weapons.
the-members of the-species that had made the-planet's-populations way to earth appears to have been simultaneously destroyed when the-leader of the-civilization activated some-form of self-destruct-mechanism.
the-planet's-inhabitants leave the-planet behind when godzilla, mothra, and the-forces of earth successfully defeat the-forces of earth armies and monsters.
rosetta – home-planet of rosemary and takeshi-shishidou, who fled to earth when it was invaded by the-black-star-army; in the-1979-japanese-tv-series honou no-choujin-megaloman (megaloman: superman of flame).
its-tracks includes the-explosive-and-championship-circuits, the latter of which is unique as its is the-only-track in the-game where the-player can save a-ghost as well as a-replay.
terminus is a-planet at the-edge of the-galaxy in isaac-asimov's-foundation-series, home of the-foundation (later-capital of the-foundation federation).
the-planet is slowly being sucked into a-black-hole, which forced their-species to attempt to conquer earth by the-use of a-mechanical-doppelganger of godzilla; mechagodzilla.
their-return in 1978's-terror of mechagodzilla having reconstructed the-machine and enlisting the-aid of a-scientist whose-daughter their saved in order to gain the-services of a-massive-kaiju named titanosaurus, in an-attempt to defeat godzilla and finally begin their-invasion of earth as their-own-world is now in critical-danger.
an-alternate-version of the-species appears in the dark horse comics run of godzilla, with similar-intentions for the-conquest of earth and for similar-reasons.
tran – the-main-setting of jerry-pournelle's-janissaries-series.
these-planets are identical or nearly identical to earth physically, but have a-history that differs to some-degree from that of earthearth.
planets of the-solar-system ===
real-planets of the-solar-system have that have been utilized or characterized in a-variety of fictional-ways (e.g.-edgar-rice-burroughs'-barsoom, a-fictional-version of mars).
fictional-planets of the-solar-system : planets said to be located within the-solar-system that, in reality, may not exist, do not exist, or have never existed.
a-version of earth in which everything is backwards, in the-sci-fi-television-comedy-red-dwarf.
finn (designation fn-2187) is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-force awakens as a-first-order-stormtrooper who, shocked by the-order's-cruelty in the-force awakens first-combat-mission, flees and joins forces with rey and later-the-resistance.
he is portrayed by english-actor-john-boyega, who reprised the-role in star-wars: the-last-jedi and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
boyega's-performance and the-character have received praise.
for the-roles of finn and other-new-star-wars-characters for the force awakens, director-j.-j.-abrams intentionally looked for unknown-actors, as director-j.-j.-abrams wanted audiences "to meet these-characters [in the-film] and not feel like the-film
boyega, who had impressed abrams in abrams debut role in british-sci-fi-film-attack the-block (2011), was invited to audition for the-role of finn, a-process which lasted seven months before abrams was finally cast.
stated that it was intentional that finn was given no-last-name in promotional-materials for the force awakens, suggesting that finn full name and background would be revealed in future-films.
in 2021 whilst promoting the-film cherry, marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland revealed marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland had also auditioned for the-role of finn before boyega was cast.
the-force awakens ===
finn, originally designated "fn-2187", is an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver).
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was taken from an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) family at a-young-age and sold to the-first-order to become a-part of his-family ever-expanding-army.
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was trained for most an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) life to be an-effective,-loyal,-and-merciless-soldier.
in spite of finn-training, finn becomes disillusioned with the-first-order during finn first combat mission on the-planet jakku.
finn is traumatized when a-fellow-stormtrooper dies in front of finn, and is later horrified when ren, having failed to secure the-map that will lead to the-missing-luke-skywalker (mark-hamill), orders finn squadron to massacre a-village of jakku-civilians.
finn, however, lowers finn weapon, aghast, in a-silent-but-firm-refusal.
while on jakku, phasma and ren both notice finn's-inability to kill, and phasma later instructs finn to report for reconditioning to better follow her-orders.
instead of heeding her-word, finn resolves to flee the-first-order, and convinces the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) to aid the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) in the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) escape.
when finn comes to, finn searches for poe in the-wreckage, but is only able to find the-pilot's-jacket before the-shattered-hull of their-ship is swallowed by an-enormous-sinkhole.
finn assumes that poe is dead.
alone, finn decides to search for civilization, and dons poe's-jacket in place of finn own stormtrooper armor.
poe's-astromech-droid bb-8, now in the-care of the-junk-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley), recognizes the-jacket that finn is wearing belongs to poe.
rey assumes finn to be a-member of the-resistance after mentioning that bb-8 has a-partially-completed-map leading to luke.
finn goes along with luke-mistaken-assumption, hoping that luke will help finn get bb-8 to the-resistance.
the three of them escape the-first-order with help from han-solo (harrison-ford) and chewbacca (peter-mayhew).
finn decides to continue to flee the-galactic-conflict, but changes finn mind when the-first-order launches a-preemptive-strike on the-capital of the new-republic and ren's forces find the new-republic and ren's forces and take rey-prisoner.
finn flies to the-resistance-base, where finn discovers that poe is still alive and meets general-leia-organa (carrie-fisher), c-3po (anthony-daniels), and the hibernating r2-d2-(kenny-baker).
finn reveals some-details about the-first-order's-superweapon, starkiller-base, and claims to be able to disable some-details about the-first-order's-superweapon, starkiller-base shields.
when he arrives on the-planet with han and chewbacca, however, finn reveals that finn only worked in the-base's-sanitation-section.
nevertheless, the-team takes phasma-hostage and finn forces phasma at gunpoint to disable the-shields.
this allows the-resistance to attack, led by poe.
the-resistance meet up with rey, who has freed phasma from captivity.
later, finn watches in horror with the-others as ren kills han.
ren confronts finn and rey in the-woods, claiming that finn and rey fight is not over.
finn picks up luke’s-old-lightsaber after rey is knocked out by ren and tries to fight ren, but ren easily overpowers ren and knocks ren unconscious.
rey stops ren from killing finn, and rey and chewbacca escape starkiller-base in the-millennium-falcon and bring the comatose finn to the-resistance-base for medical-care.
finn is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
finn is also a-point of view-character in the-2015-novelization of the force awakens by alan-dean-foster.
finn is a-playable-character in disney-infinity 3.0, voiced by boyega.
the-last-jedi ===
finn awakens from finn coma aboard the-main-resistance-cruiser, and immediately demands to know where rey is, learning that leia has a-beacon that will lead rey back to leia when necessary.
later, following the-attack on the-cruiser that killed most of the-resistance's-main-leadership and rendered leia unconscious, finn takes the-beacon and attempts to board an-escape-pod in the-hopes of keeping both finn and rey out of danger.
before finn can board the-pod, finn is found by rose-tico (kelly-marie-tran), a-maintenance-worker whose sister paige, a-bomber for the-resistance, has recently died in an-attack on the-first-order.
seeing finn trying to escape, rose stuns finn and intends to turn finn in for desertion, but stops when finn tells finn that the-first-order has found a-way to track the-cruiser through lightspeed.
finn tells finn that finn might be able to disable the-tracker, and finn says that, having worked aboard a-star-destroyer, finn would be able to find where the-tracker is.
rose and finn run rose and finn plan by poe, who contacts kanata for help, but finn claims that finn is too busy and instructs rose and finn to find a-"master-code-breaker" in a-casino in canto-bight, a-resort-city on planet-cantonica.
(laura-dern) wishes, finn and rose, along with bb-8, steal a-ship and go to canto-bight.
finn is initially entranced by the-lavish-lifestyle of the-casino, but becomes disillusioned when rose tells finn that most of the-people there have become wealthy by dealing arms to the-first-order.
while they find the-master-code-breaker, they are unable to recruit finn as they are arrested and jailed for a-parking-violation.
in they cell they meet dj (benicio-del-toro), a-thief and codebreaker who offers to help they; they refuse, but finn nonetheless breaks they out of their-cell.
finn and rose-escape from the-prison, where they set free a-horde of horse-like-racing-creatures called fathiers, escaping atop one of they.
eventually, finn, rose, and dj arrive aboard the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy and disguise themselves as first-order-officers; finn finds the-location of the-tracker and dj breaks themselves in, but before rose is able to disable the-tracker themselves are caught by phasma.
upon being captured, dj, having overheard the-resistance's-plan of escaping to crait via transports, secretly tells the-first-order of the-plans in exchange for money and his-freedom, and finn and rose are to be executed.
finn has a-one-on-one-fight with phasma, ending with finn proudly declaring finn "rebel scum" before phasma falls to her-demise.
bb-8, aboard a-first-order-at-st, rescues finn and rose from stormtroopers and the three of them very narrowly escape to crait aboard a-damaged-shuttle.
as the-first-order prepares an-attack on the-formerly-abandoned-rebel-base on crait, finn recognizes the-weaponry that they plan to use to destroy the-blast-doors and leads a-small-strike on the-first-order with the-intention of disabling the-cannon.
the-attack goes poorly, and poe orders all-fighters to retreat, but finn is determined to destroy the-cannon and flies directly into the-blast, planning to sacrifice finn to defeat the-first-order.
at the-last-second, rose stops finn by ramming her-speeder into finn, pushing finn out of the-blast.
finn asks her why her stopped finn, and her tells finn that wars are won "not by fighting what we hate, but saving what we love;" her then kisses finn before falling unconscious.
finn brings her-body back to the-rebel-base and summons a-medic for her.
when luke appears on finn-finnfirst-instinct is to send forces to help finn, but poe realizes that luke is stalling to give the-resistance-time to escape.
finn and poe lead the-resistance off the-planet.
finn finally reunites with rey, and embraces finn before boarding the-millennium-falcon.
finn is last seen putting a-blanket over the-still-unconscious-rose.
finn is a-playable-hero in star-wars-battlefront-ii, voiced by boyega.
finn was added through the-dlc of the-last-jedi.
the-rise of skywalker
finn, along with poe, intercepts a-message from a-first-order-mole that emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has come back to life and is planning an-attack on the-resistance and the-new-republic in the-form of the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers designed by the-sith-eternal.
finn then leaves along with rey, poe, c-3po, and chewbacca to the-desert-planet of pasaana, where with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams)
throughout the-whole-journey, finn clearly has something finn wants to tell rey, but is unable to find the-time to tell finn.
the-whole-journey takes rey, poe, c-3po, and chewbacca to kijimi, where the-location of the-wayfinder is extracted from c-3po's memory files, and later to the-resurgent-class-star-destroyer-steadfast, where finn and poe go to rescue chewbacca, who was taken by the-first-order.
in the-process, finn and poe are captured by stormtroopers and set to be executed, but finn and poe are rescued by general-hux (domnhall-gleeson), who reveals that he is the-mole.
going free, finn and poe rescue rey aboard the-millennium-falcon and head to the-endor-system, where the-wayfinder is located among the-wreckage of the-second-death-star.
on kef-bir, finn and poe rescue-rey encounter a-group allied with the-resistance, led by a-woman named jannah (naomi ackie).
finn gets to know jannah, who reveals that finn and the-entire-settlement on kef-bir are former-stormtroopers who mutinied after a-battle.
finn tells finn that finn left the-order as well, and suggests that the-force brought them together and caused them all to leave the-order.
finn and jannah follow rey aboard the-wreckage to try and stop her from confronting ren, but her does so and nearly kills ren before healing ren and leaving aboard ren's ship.
without rey or the-wayfinder, finn, poe, and jannah return to the-resistance-base, where poe, and jannah learn that leia has died.
poe is named acting general, and poe appoints finn as co-general.
finn learns of exegol's-whereabouts based on rey's-transmissions, and finn and poe lead a-strike against the-sith-eternal-forces, with finn and jannah specifically leading a-ground-attack on the-surface of the-steadfast to take out he and poe navigation.
as the-attack nears the-attack end, finn and jannah are left on the-surface of the-damaged-resurgent-star-destroyer, but are ultimately rescued by lando and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon and the-rest of the-resistance-fleet; finn attributes finn faith in finn being rescued to a-belief in the-force.
following the-successful-attack, finn celebrates among the-rebels on the-resistance-base, reuniting with rey and poe.
finn, having revealed what finn was going to tell rey to be of finn own realization of being force sensitive, is now training under rey as rey jedi padawan.
rey accidentally hurts finn's-feelings during a-training-session, making finn use a-wooden-toy-lightsaber instead of rey own.
rey seeks out a-path leading rey to the-world between worlds, allowing rey to travel through time.
meanwhile, finn plans for life-day-celebrations with poe, jannah, rose and lando, as they await the-arrival of chewbacca's-family.
during her-travels, rey learns from yoda's-ghost that patience and understanding is an-important-part of teaching a-padawan; finn is shown to have prevented the-life-day-tree from falling by using finn wooden lightsaber.
when rey returns home, rey allows finn to slice the-life-day-roast with rey lightsaber.
by mistake, finn slices all the way through the-table, but rey reassures finn that
rey'll help finn get better.
i feel like it's the-same-kind of journey that finn has when finn leaves the-first-order.
finn leaves a-curriculum, finn leaves a-system and embarks on finn own journey.
finn also noted that initially "most of finn decisions are based on adrenaline.
" boyega further noted that "[n]ot only is the-character in over his-head and someone who is just dropped into an-extraordinary-circumstance, the-scenes and the-script prove that
finn was originally going to be accompanied to canto-bight by poe in the-last-jedi, but writer/director-rian-johnson found the-storyline flat when writer/director-rian-johnson realized their-dialogue was interchangeable.
this led to the-creation of the-character rose-tico, who would challenge and contrast with finn.
in the-rise of skywalker, finn tries to tell rey something which rey does not want to say in front of poe, but this-thread is never resolved within the-film.
the-novelization of the-film reveals that finn is force-sensitive, implying this to be what him intended to tell rey.
abrams later confirmed that finn was indeed force-sensitive shortly after the-film's-premiere.
the-novelization of the-film also states that rey believes this as well, speculating on the-kind of jedi-jedi could become.
the-character and boyega's-portrayal were praised; reviewer-jamie-graham wrote, "of the-new-triangle of characters, boyega brings intensity and surprisingly-honed-comic-timing."
reviewers also praised finn's-relationships with the-other-characters: the dynamic between rey and finn is something new for star-wars, with her-bright-eyed-heroism complementing boyega's-roguish-wit...
peter-travers of rolling-stone described the-character as "bracingly comic and cunning".
robbie-collin writes that boyega has a-"(very-funny)-half-brave,-half-anxious,-would-be-heroic-schtick" and notes that despite being "brave, charming, and funny", finn "only wants to be thought of as the-daring-freedom-fighter
the-character was also subject to racist-reactions by some-fans online, to which boyega responded, "i'm not going to lose sleep over people."
finn in the starwars.com databank finn on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki finn on imdb-lego-star-wars:
by walking up to another-friendly-character, the-player can switch control over to another-friendly-character; this-interaction is necessary in order to use another-character's-abilities to complete certain-puzzles.
lego-studs, small-coin-like-collectibles which serve as the-game's-currency, can be collected by finding lego-studs, small-coin-like-collectibles which serve as the-game's-currency, smashing or using the-force on certain-objects, or defeating enemies.
when the-player first starts the-game, the-player must first complete chapter i of the-phantom-menace
however, once that-chapter is completed, the-player may choose to play any-unlocked-levels from the-other-two-movies in the-other-two-movies desired-order.
however, if the-player unlocks the-last-level (an-episode-4-preview), darth-vader, a-stormtrooper, a-rebel-trooper and princess-leia become available.
once a-non-vehicle-level has been cleared in story-mode, the-player may play through a-non-vehicle-level again in free-play-mode.
at any-point, the-player can rotate instantly between each of the-chosen-characters to access areas not accessible during the-story-mode and obtain hidden-extras.
dexter's diner === is the-area where the-player chooses what-level to enter, or they can enter the-parking-lot to view any-vehicles whose-parts they have found and pieced together.
at the-diner-counter, the-player may purchase, or enter codes, to unlock extras in exchange for lego-studs they have collected by playing through the-levels.
new-hope from the-viewpoint of darth-vader aboard the-tantive-iv.
and that's what makes it enjoyable for adults too, because let's face it; darth-vader makes everything better -- it's a-fact."
the-force awakens, based on the-2015-film of the-same-name, was released in june 2016, and lego-star-wars:
actors from the-live-action-films who returned to reprise their-roles for the-show include: wood as the-b1-battle-droids and general-grievous, ahmed-best as jar-jar-binks (although binks was voiced by phil-lamarr in three-early-episodes), daniels as c-3po, burtt as r2-d2, chewbacca, and darth-vader's-breaths, daniel-logan as the-young-clone-trooper-cadets and boba-fett, liam-neeson as qui-gon-jinn, and pernilla-august as shmi-skywalker, respectively.
a-tunnel-shooter, otherwise known as a-scrolling-shooter-or-rail-shooter, is a-flying-game where the-player is on a-predetermined-track.
a-range of playable-species are available for the-player to choose from, some limited to some-factions.
some can play human, cyborg (human-based), twi'lek or zabrak (whose-appearances are initially different depending on which-side the-character is from).
by the-same-method, unlocking the-zabrak-species allows users to play both-appearances regardless from which side the-character is from.
the-player can assign up-to-five-companions to perform up-to-3-various-skills.
crafting-skills allow the-player's-companions to create items, and the-player can reverse engineer many-items to possibly learn to make a-better-version.
the-item is destroyed in the-process, but the-player gets some of the-materials back.
the-alliance-system entails recruiting-allies, including some-companions from other-classes that formerly were restricted, from across the-galaxy to join the-fight against the-eternal-empire.
the-force unleashed ===
the-force unleashed
the-force unleashed ii
apprentice of the-force (2004) –
balance of the-force (2013)
the-force awakens (2016)
the-last-jedi (2018)
the-force awakens (2016):
adds star-wars-maps, quests, mobs, skins, items and vehicles from the-original-trilogy and the-mandalorian into the-game.
at release featuring darth-vader exclusively in the-playstation-3-version, with yoda exclusively in the-xbox-360-version, and darth-vader's apprentice galen starkiller marek in both-versions.
months after the-release, darth-vader and yoda were made available for purchase as downloadable-content, each at the-version darth-vader and yoda were absent at release.
sam-witwer as maul (seasons 2–3), a-former-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who is attempting to hunt down obi-wan-kenobi.
james-earl-jones as darth-vader, an-evil-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who was once jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker.
sam-witwer and ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-ruler of the-galaxy and also known as darth-sidious, sith-master of darth-vader.
however, due to dhx-media losing the-rights to disney-content, the-show was later moved to disney-channel.
the second season premiered on november 7, and the-show was moved to disney-channel on december 1.in
the-rise of skywalker during the-final-battle over exegol.
the-voice of freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus can also heard in the-2019-film star-wars as one of the-voices of jedi past who provide rey with encouragement to defeat emperor-palpatine.
a-sequel to thrawn, titled thrawn: alliances explored thrawn's partnerships with darth-vader and anakin-skywalker.
the-force awakens (as downloadable-content only),
the-force awakens –
in may 2015, john-williams said john-williams would reuse themes from the-previous-films, such as those for luke, leia and han, in ways that "will seem very natural and right in the-moments for which we've chosen to do these-kinds of quotes.
the-london-symphony-orchestra recorded 175-minutes of music, although nearly-an-hour of that was discarded, modified, or rerecorded as abrams re-edited the-film.
the-last-recording-session took place on november 14, 2015.leading up to the-release of the-force
the-player takes control of three-different-vehicles in stages based upon the-return of the-jedi-film.
in the-first-stage, the-player pilots a-speeder-bike to the-ewok-village.
in the-latter-film, c-3po tells luke-skywalker that his-and-r2-d2's-"last-master was captain-antilles.
; anthony-daniels as c-3po also portrayed the-character in the-films.
additionally, possible-sources of inspiration for sequel trilogy-main-characters rey and kylo-ren have been noticed.
these include allies of the-mandalorian such as cara-dune, greef-karga, ig-11, kuiil, and the-armorer.
the-mandalorian, sometimes abbreviated as mando, is a-sobriquet for din-djarin, the-protagonist of the-mandalorian television series.
greef-karga is a-leader of the-bounty-hunters'-guild, who serves as both-an-ally and adversary to the-mandalorian at different-points in the-show's-first-season.
greef provides the-assignment that leads the-mandalorian to meet the-child.
when the-mandalorian refuses to turn the-child over to the-imperials, greef leads a-group of bounty-hunters in an-unsuccessful-attempt to take the-child from the-child.
greef later devises a-plan to kill the-mandalorian and return the-child to the-imperials, but when the-child saves the-child life, greef has a-change of heart and helps protect greef from the-empire.
carl-weathers accepted the-part under the-condition that carl-weathers could direct future-episodes of the-mandalorian in the-second-season.
greef-karga was originally to appear only in a-handful of episodes, but jon-favreau and the-writers liked the-character so much that the-part was expanded.
the-character has received generally-positive-feedback from fans and reviewers.
the-mandalorian delivers the-child to the-client, but later rescues the-child back.
the-client conspires to recapture the-mandalorian and the-child, but after the-mandalorian returns to him, the-client is shot and killed by stormtroopers under gideon's-orders.
the-mandalorian", in which he is present on an-imperial-compound on nevarro when the-client hires the-mandalorian to track down and deliver the-child.
pershing appears again in "chapter 3: the sin", when the-mandalorian delivers the-child to the-client.
the-mandalorian later returns to the-imperial-compound to rescue the-child, killing all-the-stormtroopers there and finding pershing with the-child, who is sedated and strapped into laboratory-equipment.
when the-mandalorian threatens pershing, the-scientist pleads for mercy and insists the-scientist protected the-child and prevented the-child from being killed.
the-mandalorian takes the-child and leaves pershing unharmed.
in the-season-finale, dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval is captured by the-mandalorian and dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval companions; dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval helps dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval captors infiltrate gideon's-ship in order to rescue grogu.
kuiil also rebuilds the-bounty-hunter-droid ig-11 after the-mandalorian destroys him.
kuiil and ig-11 later join the-mandalorian on a-mission to protect the-child from the-imperial-remnant on the-planet-nevarro, where kuiil is shot and killed by imperial-scout-troopers while attempting to bring the-child to safety.
they work together to extract the-child from a-gang of mercenaries, but when ig-11 tries to kill the-child, the-mandalorian instead shoots and kills the-droid.
the-droid later joins the-mandalorian on a-mission to nevarro to protect the-child from the-imperial-remnant, and though the-mandalorian does not initially trust the-child,
in the-first-season-finale "chapter 8: redemption", the-armorer instructs the-mandalorian to watch over and protect the-child, and to reunite the-child with others of the-child own-kind.
cara first encounters the-mandalorian on the-planet-sorgan, where cara work together to protect a-local-village from raiders.
carano performed many of carano own-stunts, and carano credits bryce-dallas-howard, who directed the-character's-first-appearance in "chapter 4: sanctuary", with helping translate the-character from the-script to the-screen.
the-mandalorian hires the-mandalorian to repair the-mandalorian ship, and the-mandalorian also comes to take care of the-child.
the-mandalorian later gives the-bounty-hunter-toro-calican the-task of taking the-frog-lady to trask where the-mandalorian husband has knowledge of other-mandalorians'-whereabouts.
when fennec tries to convince toro to free toro so they could capture the-mandalorian and deliver toro to the-bounty-hunters'-guild, toro instead kills fennec and seeks to capture the-mandalorian.
several-reviewers felt the-character was eliminated too quickly and did not get the-chance to live up to the-character potential, and some-critics have speculated that the-character could still be alive.
later in the-season, gideon apprehends grogu and seeks to continue the-experimentation, but the-mandalorian captures dr.-pershing and infiltrates gideon's ship.
gideon battles the-mandalorian with the-darksaber, but is ultimately defeated.
as a-platoon of dark-troopers attempt to rescue him, luke-skywalker arrives and destroys the-droids.
grogu is taken by skywalker to be trained as a-jedi.
the-heiress" enlists the-mandalorian to take the-heiress" and the-heiress" eggs to the-moon-trask to be reunited with the-heiress" husband, who can fertilize her-eggs, in exchange for information on other-mandalorians'-whereabouts.
because of her-eggs-fragility, her-eggs have to travel at "sub-light", and end up crashing on an-icy-planet to avoid a-x-wing-fighter-patrol who have an-arrest-warrant for the-mandalorian since he has helped break out qin from the-new-republic-transport.
they are nearly killed by a-swarm of spider-like-krynka, but are rescued by the-x-wing-pilots who let the-mandalorian go with a-warning because he assisted in the-capture of the-others involved in the-prison-break.
the-mandalorian leaves the-child with the-frog-lady and the-frog-man to babysit.
in "chapter 11: the-heiress", bo-katan and the-nite-owls-rescue the-mandalorian and the-child.
the-mandalorian leaves rejecting their-help.
bo-katan was impressed by the-mandalorian and invites bo-katan to join they, but bo-katan must continue bo-katan quest, so
bo-katan returns in chapter 16 and helps the-mandalorian to rescue the-child from moff-gideon.
bo-katan is portrayed by katee-sackhoff, who previously voiced the-character in animated-form in star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels.
several-characters have been featured in a-single-episode within a-season of the-mandalorian in which several-characters play a-significant-role.
an-unnamed-mythrol appears in the-opening-scenes of the-series-premiere "chapter 1: the-mandalorian", in which the-mandalorian captures him to collect a-bounty.
==== is a-young-bounty-hunter who encountered the-mandalorian in episode "chapter 5
toro later double-crosses the-mandalorian and attempts to turn toro over to the-guild, but is instead shot and killed by the-mandalorian.
after the-mission, ran tries to have the-mandalorian killed, but instead the-mandalorian space station is attacked by new-republic-x-wing-fighters, which were led there by the-mandalorian.
fans reacted positively to ran's-character and boone's-performance, and the-character was included on vulture's-list of the-show's-15-best-cameo-appearances from season one.
mayfeld-clashes repeatedly with the-mandalorian during the-mission, and ultimately attempts to betray migs-mayfeld
after moff-gideon's-dark-troopers make off with grogu, the-mandalorian later asks cara-dune about where mayfeld is being held.
the-mandalorian goes instead but the-terminal requires a-facial-scan, and the-mandalorian removes the-mandalorian helmet to acquire the-codes.
the-mandalorian is confronted by hess, but mayfeld intervenes.
after getting what they need, dune and the-mandalorian allow mayfeld to leave while covering this up by stating that he was killed in action.
the-character of mayfeld received a-generally-positive-response from reviewers, and several-critics noted that mayfeld's sardonic personality and hard-edged-sense of humor are similar to burr's-real-life-comedic-style.
she attempts to betray the-mandalorian during the-mission, but instead the-mandalorian incapacitates xi'an and locks she in a-cell on the-prison-transport.
extremely-strong,-ranzar-"ran"-malk's repeatedly mocks the-mandalorian during the-mandalorian time together, at one-point attempting to forcibly remove ranzar-"ran"-malk's-helmet.
burg attempts to betray the-mandalorian during the-mission, but the-mandalorian defeats the-mandalorian in a-fight, and locks the-mandalorian into a-cell on the-prison-transport.
in "chapter 10: the-passenger", it is revealed that the-mandalorian has kept q9-0's remains on the-razor-crest.
at one-point, the-frog-lady uses the-droid's-vocabulator to better communicate with the-mandalorian so that the-frog-lady can understand what the-frog-lady is saying.
the-character received generally-positive-reviews from critics.
qin blamed the-mandalorian for qin imprisonment.
after the-team infiltrates the-ship and recovers qin, the-team lock the-mandalorian in qin's cell and attempt to abandon qin there, but qin escapes.
= is a-abyssin-gangster whom the-mandalorian sought out for information on any-mandalorian-sightings in "chapter 9:
when the-mandalorian approaches the-marshal" while the-marshal" is watching a-ring-fight, gor koresh ====
orders the-marshal"-henchmen to kill the-marshal" and steal the-marshal" beskar armor, but the-mandalorian defeats his-beskar-armor and interrogates koresh, who informs his-beskar-armor of a-mandalorian-warrior operating on tatooine.
the-mandalorian then leaves koresh hanging from the-lamppost which koresh shoots the-lights out as nocturnal-creatures start to close in.
in "chapter 9: the-marshal", the-mandalorian is told to seek out cobb by people who had mistaken cobb for an-actual-mandalorian because of cobb armor.
when the-mandalorian meets cobb and finds out the-truth, cobb demands that cobb remove cobb armor.
their-stand-off is interrupted by the-attack of a-krayt-dragon that has been terrorizing mos-pelgo, and cobb persuades the-mandalorian to assist the-mandalorian in killing the-mandalorian in exchange for his-armor.
together, their form an unlikely alliance between the-townspeople and the-tusken-raiders to eliminate their-common-enemy, before the-mandalorian comes up with a-strategy to use a-bantha as a-suicide-bomber and have the-mandalorian detonate once the-dragon eats the-mandalorian.
when the-plan fails, the-mandalorian decides to allow the-mandalorian to be eaten as well in order to manually detonate the-explosives, and entrusts cobb to look after the-child, should the-mandalorian perish.
the-mandalorian survives and, with the-dragon slain, the-dragon parts ways amicably with cobb, who hands the-dragon the-dragon armor.
when the-mandalorian arrived in calidan, lang took lang to morgan.
lang later led lang troops into fighting ahsoka and the-mandalorian when his-troops attacked calodan and took down the-soldiers loyal to morgan.
is a-togruta, former-jedi-padawan to anakin-skywalker, and whom the-mandalorian seeks out in order to return the-child to the-child species.
the-mandalorian met ahsoka-tano, and she was able to interact with the-child without words as they can feel each-other's-thoughts.
the-mandalorian and ahsoka work together to liberate calodan from elsbeth who is defeated by ahsoka.
the-character was previously voiced by ashley-eckstein in star-wars:
when the-mandalorian arrived on corvus, morgan contracted morgan to find ahsoka, for which she will give morgan a-pure-beskar-staff as reward.
the-mandalorian and ahsoka worked together to liberate calidan from morgan's-rule.
luke-skywalker ====
luke-skywalker is the-jedi-master who responds to grogu's-transmission through the-force, rescuing him from gideon's-dark-troopers in "chapter 16:
luke is portrayed by mark-hamill.
several-characters have appeared on the-mandalorian in minor-roles or significant-cameo-appearances.
he appears in the-episode "chapter 3: the-sin", where he initially quarrels with the-mandalorian for working with the-empire, but later comes to he assistance when the-mandalorian is being attacked.
when the-villagers hire the-mandalorian and cara-dune to protect the-villagers from klatooinian-raiders, omera befriends the-mandalorian, and the two appear attracted to each other.
chapter-4"-director-bryce-dallas-howard said it was challenging directing emotional-scenes between omera and the-mandalorian because chapter-4"-director-bryce-dallas-howard always wears a-helmet, but that the-scenes worked because "julia is deeply connected to julia emotions
the-character of omera has received mixed-reviews from critics.
she develops a-close-friendship with the-child after the-mandalorian brings the-child to the-village.
the two hire the-mandalorian to provide protection from klatooinian-raiders attacking the-village.
riot-mar is a-bounty-hunter who attempts to recover the-child from the-mandalorian in "chapter 5
riot-pilots a-starfighter and attacks the-mandalorian's-ship, but is killed by the-mandalorian after a-brief-dogfight.
despite efforts by the-mandalorian to save him, davan is murdered by a-gang of mercenaries who board the-ship to rescue the-prisoner qin.
teva and wolf catch up to the-mandalorian where teva and wolf slew some-ice-spiders.
before leaving, carson advises that the-mandalorian where they slew some-ice-spiders gets carson transponder fixed by the-next-time the-same-criminals run into each other.
while the-mandalorian and ahsoka-tano were fighting morgan's-forces, wing helped to free the-prisoners.
r2-d2 appeared with luke in "chapter 16:
the-rescue" where they obtain grogu so that luke can train luke.
bib-fortuna is portrayed by matthew-wood, bib-fortuna previously appeared as the-character in the-phantom-menace.
list of star-wars-characters mandalorian the-mandalorian ==
full-cast and crew of the-mandalorian at imdb-star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise created by george-lucas, which began with the-eponymous-1977-film and quickly became a-worldwide-pop-culture-phenomenon.
lucas later returned to filmmaking to direct a-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii: attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
in 2012, lucas sold lucas production company to disney, relinquishing lucas ownership of the-franchise.
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-star-wars-franchise depicts the-adventures of characters "a long time ago in a-galaxy far, far away", in which humans and many-species of aliens (often humanoid) co-exist with robots, or 'droids', who may assist humans and many-species of aliens (often humanoid) in humans and many-species of aliens (often-humanoid)-daily-routines; space-travel between planets is common due to lightspeed-hyperspace-technology.
a-mystical-power known as the-force is described in the-original-film as "an-energy-field created by all-living-things ...
[that] binds the-galaxy together".
the-force is wielded by two-major-knightly-orders at conflict with each other: the-jedi, peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who act on the-light-side of the-force through non-attachment and arbitration, and the-sith, who use the-dark-side by manipulating fear and aggression.
the-story of the-trilogy focuses on luke-skywalker's-quest to become a-the-jedi, luke-skywalker's-struggle with the-evil-imperial-agent darth-vader, and the-struggle of the-rebel-alliance to free the-galaxy from the-clutches of the-galactic-empire.
in 1980, lucas confirmed that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but due to the-stress of producing the-original-trilogy, lucas had decided to cancel further-sequels by 1981.
in 1983, lucas explained that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as the-entire-story exists now ...
technical-advances in the-late-1980s and early-1990s, including the-ability to create computer-generated-imagery (cgi), inspired lucas to consider that it might be possible to revisit lucas saga.
in 1989, lucas stated that the-prequels would be "unbelievably expensive."
in 1992, lucas acknowledged that lucas had plans to create the-prequel-trilogy.
together with the-original-trilogy, lucas has collectively referred to the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise as "the-tragedy of darth-vader".
prior to releasing the-original-film, and made possible by the-original-film success, lucas planned "three-trilogies of nine-films."
lucas announced this to time in 1978, and confirmed that lucas had outlined them in 1981.
at various-stages of development, the-sequel-trilogy was to focus on the-rebuilding of the-republic, the return of luke in a-role similar to that of obi-wan in the-original-trilogy, luke's sister (not yet determined to be leia), han, leia, r2-d2 and c-3po.
however, after beginning work on the-prequel-trilogy, lucas insisted that star-wars was meant to be a-six-part-series and that there would be no-sequel-trilogy.
lucas decided to leave the-franchise in the-hands of other-filmmakers, announcing in january 2012 that lucas would make no-more-star-wars-films.
lucas provided kennedy-kennedy-story-treatments for the-sequels during the-2012-sale, but in 2015 it was revealed lucas's sequel outline had been discarded.
the-last-jedi on december 13, 2017, and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker on december 18, 2019, in many-countries.
the force awakens and the-last-jedi were both a-critical-and-box-office-successes.
along with ex-stormtrooper-finn and ace-x-wing-pilot-poe-dameron, rey helps the-resistance, led by leia, fight the-first-order, commanded by han and leia's son (and luke's-nephew), kylo-ren.
after orchestrating the-clone-wars between the-republic and a-separatist-confederation, palpatine exterminates the-jedi-order, overthrows the-democratic-galactic-republic, and establishes the-totalitarian-galactic-empire.
the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire includes the-mandalorian and the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire spin-off series, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic, and ahsoka.
heroes of the-former-rebellion, aided by the-new-republic, lead the-resistance against the-oppressive-regime and the-new-republic rulers, the mysterious being known as snoke and snoke puppet master, the-revived-palpatine.
the-first-novel, heir to the-empire, reached #1 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list, and the-series finds luke, leia, and han facing off against tactical-genius-thrawn, who is plotting to retake the-galaxy for the-empire.
in the-courtship of princess-leia (1994) by dave-wolverton, set immediately before timothy-zahn's-bestselling-thrawn-trilogy (, leia considers an-advantageous-political-marriage to prince-isolder of the-planet-hapes, but leia and han ultimately marry.
the-bestselling-multi-author-series-legacy of the-force (2006–2008) chronicles the-crossover of han and leia's-son jacen-solo to the-dark-side of the-force;
lucas, a-fan of the-npr-affiliated-campus-radio-station of lucas alma mater the-university of southern-california, licensed the-star-wars-radio-rights to kusc-fm for us$1.
katarn is a-former-stormtrooper who joins the-rebellion and becomes a-jedi, a-plot-arc similar to that of finn in the-sequel-trilogy-films.
the-force unleashed (2008–2010) was a-similar-project set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope that included a-novel, a-2008-video-game and the-sith 2010 sequel, a-graphic-novel, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and toys.
however, unlike jesus, anakin falls from grace, remaining evil as darth-vader until return of the-jedi.
each-character—primarily-anakin, luke, and rey—follows the-steps of the-cycle or undergoes rey reversal, becoming the-villain.
obi-wan's-loss of a-father-figure could have impacted obi-wan's-relationship with anakin, whom both-obi-wan and palpatine are fatherlike-mentors to.
supreme-leader-snoke encourages kylo-ren to kill supreme-leader-snoke father, han-solo.
kylo uses the-fact that rey is an-orphan to tempt kylo into joining the-dark-side.
according to inverse, the-final-scene in the-last-jedi, which depicts servant-children playing with a-toy of luke and one-boy using the-force, symbolizes that "the-force can be found in people with humble-beginnings."
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of vader.
palpatine being a-chancellor before becoming the-emperor in the-prequel
lucas has also drawn parallels to historical-dictators such as julius-caesar, napoleon-bonaparte, and politicians like richard-nixon.
on the-inspiration for the-first-order formed "from the-ashes of the-empire", the-force awakens
phrases like "evil-empire" and "may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
one-such-critic, peter-biskind, complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and spielberg returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth".
numerous-filmmakers have been influenced by star-wars, including damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, joss-whedon, john-singleton, kevin-smith, and later star-wars directors j. j. abrams and gareth-edwards.
that is, it is in direct-orbit of the-sun and is massive enough to be plastic – for its-gravity to maintain its in a-hydrostatically-equilibrious-shape (usually-a-spheroid) – but has not cleared the-neighborhood of its-orbit of similar-objects.
the-number of dwarf-planets in the-solar-system is unknown.
the-decision had been precipitated by the-discovery of eris, an-object farther away from the-sun than neptune that was more massive than pluto but still much smaller than the-classical-planets, after discoveries of a-number of other-objects that rivaled pluto in size had forced a-reconsideration of what pluto was.
thus planetary-scientist-alan-stern and many-other-planetary-geologists distinguish dwarf-planets from classical-planets, but since 2006 the-iau and the-majority of astronomers have excluded bodies such as eris and pluto from the-roster of planets altogether.
starting in 1801, astronomers discovered ceres and other-bodies between mars and jupiter that for decades were considered to be planets.
between then and around 1851, when the-number of planets had reached 23, astronomers started using the-word-asteroid for the-smaller-bodies and then stopped naming or classifying the-smaller-bodies as planets.
with the-discovery of pluto in 1930, most-astronomers considered the-solar-system to have nine-planets, along with thousands of significantly-smaller-bodies (asteroids and comets).
astronomers were also confident that more-objects as large as pluto would be discovered, and the-number of planets would start growing quickly if pluto were to remain classified as a-planet.
all other objects,3 except satellites, orbiting the-sun shall be referred to collectively as "small-solar-system-bodies.
these-five-bodies – the three under consideration in 2006 (pluto, ceres and eris) plus the two named in 2008 (haumea and makemake) – are commonly presented as the-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system by naming authorities.
although concerns were raised about the-classification of planets orbiting other-stars, the-issue was not resolved; the-issue was proposed instead to decide this only when dwarf-planet-size-objects start to be observed.
the-category of 'plutoid' captured an-earlier-distinction between the-'terrestrial-dwarf'-ceres and the-'ice-dwarfs' of the-outer-solar-system, part of a-conception of a-threefold-division of the-solar-system into inner-terrestrial-planets, central-gas-giants and outer-ice-dwarfs, of which pluto was the-principal-member. '
using this-parameter, steven-soter and other-astronomers argued for a-distinction between planets and dwarf-planets based on the-inability of the latter to "clear the-neighbourhood around steven-soter and other-astronomers orbits": planets are able to remove smaller-bodies near smaller-bodies orbits by collision, capture, or gravitational-disturbance (or establish orbital-resonances that prevent collisions), whereas dwarf-planets lack the-mass to do so.
> 1 indicates a-planet, and there is again a-gap of several-orders of magnitude between planets and dwarf-planets.
there are several-other-schemes that try to differentiate between planets and dwarf-planets, but the-2006-definition uses this-concept.
the-number of dwarf-planets in the-solar-system is not known.
mike-brown (the-discoverer of eris) agrees with the-reduction of the-number of planets to eight.
evidence from 2019 suggests that theia, the-former-planet that collided with earth in the-giant-impact-hypothesis, may have originated in the-outer-solar-system rather than in the-inner-solar-system and that earth's water originated on theia, thus implying that theia may have been a-former-dwarf-planet from the-kuiper-belt.
indeed, neptune's-moon-triton is a-captured-dwarf-planet, and ceres formed in the-same-region of the-solar-system as the-moons of jupiter and saturn.)
in a-draft-resolution for the-iau-definition of planet, both-pluto and charon were considered planets in a-binary-system.
official-websites for australia, canada, the-uk, and the-us-mars is the-fourth-planet from the-sun and the-second-smallest-planet in the-solar-system, being larger than only-mercury.
in english, mars carries the-name of the-roman-god of war and is often referred to as the-"red-planet".
mars is a-terrestrial-planet with a-thin-atmosphere, with surface features reminiscent of the-impact-craters of the-moon and the-valleys, deserts and polar-ice-caps of earth.
mars is the-site of olympus-mons, the-largest-volcano and highest-known-mountain on any-planet in the-solar-system, and of valles-marineris, one of the-largest-canyons in the-solar-system.
the-smooth-borealis-basin in the-northern-hemisphere covers 40% of mars and may be a-giant-impact-feature.
mars has two-moons, phobos and deimos, which are small and irregularly shaped.
mars has been explored by several-uncrewed-spacecraft.
mariner 4 was the-first-spacecraft to visit mars; launched by nasa on 28-november 1964, mars made mars closest approach to mars on 15-july 1965.
on 4-july 1997, the-mars-pathfinder-spacecraft landed on mars 3 and on-5-july released the mars pathfinder rover, sojourner, the-first-robotic-rover to operate on mars 3.
the-mars-express-orbiter, the-first-european-space-agency-(esa)-spacecraft to visit mars 3, arrived in orbit on 25-december 2003.
in january 2004, nasa's-mars-exploration-rovers, named spirit and opportunity, both landed on mars 3; spirit operated until 22-march 2010
nasa landed nasa curiosity rover on august 6, 2012, as a-part of nasa mars science laboratory (msl) mission to investigate martian-climate and geology.
on 24-september 2014, the-indian-space-research-organisation (isro) became the-fourth-space-agency to visit mars when the-indian-space-research-organisation (isro) maiden-interplanetary-mission, the mars orbiter mission spacecraft, arrived in orbit.
nasa's-perseverance-rover-and-ingenuity-helicopter successfully landed on mars on 18-february 2021.
ingenuity successfully completed the-first-powered-controlled-flight by an-aircraft on any-planet besides earth on 19-april 2021, taking off vertically, hovering and landing on mars.
liquid-water on the-surface of mars cannot exist due to low-atmospheric-pressure, which is less-than-1% of the-atmospheric-pressure on earth, except at the-lowest-elevations for short-periods.
mars can easily be seen from earth with the-naked-eye, as can mars reddish coloring.
mars apparent-magnitude reaches −2.94, which is surpassed only by venus, the-moon and the-sun.
optical-ground-based-telescopes are typically limited to resolving features about-300-kilometres (190 mi) across when earth and mars are closest because of earth's atmosphere.
the-adjectival-form of mars is martius, which provides the-english-words martian, used as an-adjective or for a-putative-inhabitant of mars, and martial, used as an-adjective corresponding to terrestrial for earth.
mars' is also the-basis of the-name of the-month of march (from latin-martius-mēnsis-'month of mars'), as well as of tuesday (latin dies martis-'day of mars'), where the-old-anglo-saxon-god-tíw was identified with roman god mars by interpretatio-germanica.
due to the-global-influence of european-languages in astronomy, a-word like mars or marte for the-planet is common around the-world, though the-planet may be used alongside older,-native-words.
a-long-standing-nickname for mars is the-"red-planet".
mars is less dense than earth, having about-15% of earth's volume and 11% of earth's mass, resulting in about-38% of earth's surface gravity.
like earth, mars has differentiated into a-dense-metallic-core overlaid by less-dense-materials.
mars is seismically active, with insight recording over 450-marsquakes and related-events in 2019.
in march 2021, nasa reported, based on measurements of over-500-marsquakes by the-insight-lander on mars, that the-core of mars is between-1,810-and-1,860-km (1,120 and 1,160-mi), about-half-the-size of the-core of earth, and significantly smaller — suggesting a-core of lighter-elements — than thought earlier.
although mars has no-evidence of a-structured-global-magnetic-field, observations show that parts of the-planet's-crust have been magnetized, suggesting that alternating polarity-reversals of mars dipole field have occurred in the-past.
one-theory, published in 1999 and re-examined in october 2005 (with the-help of the-mars-global-surveyor), is that these-bands suggest plate-tectonic-activity on mars four billion years ago, before the-planetary-dynamo ceased to function and the-planet's-magnetic-field faded.
it is thought that, during the-solar-system's-formation, mars was created as the-result of a-stochastic-process of run-away-accretion of material from the-protoplanetary-disk that orbited the-sun.
mars has many-distinctive-chemical-features caused by mars position in the-solar-system.
about-60% of the-surface of mars shows a-record of impacts from that-era, whereas much of the-surface of mars is probably underlain by immense-impact-basins caused by those-events.
this-theory suggests that mars was struck by a-pluto-sized-body about four billion years ago.
the-geological-history of mars can be split into many-periods, but the-following are the-three-primary-periods:
this is a-very-high-concentration and makes the-martian-soil toxic (see also martian-soil-toxicity).streaks are common across mars and new-ones appear frequently on steep-slopes of craters, troughs, and valleys.
liquid-water cannot exist on the-surface of mars due to low-atmospheric-pressure, which is less-than-1% that of earth's, except at the-lowest-elevations for short-periods.
the-volume of water-ice in the-south-polar-ice-cap, if melted, would be sufficient to cover the-surface of mars to a-depth of 11-metres (36-ft).
landforms visible on mars strongly suggest that liquid-water has existed on the-planet's-surface.
further-evidence that liquid-water once existed on the-surface of mars comes from the-detection of specific-minerals such as hematite and goethite, both of which sometimes form in the-presence of water.
it is estimated that the-amount of water in the-upper-mantle of mars, represented by hydroxyl-ions contained within the-minerals of mars's geology, is equal to or greater than that of earth at 50–300-parts per million of water, which is enough to cover the-entire-planet to a-depth of 200–1,000-metres (660–3,280 ft).in 2005, radar-data revealed the-presence of large-quantities of water-ice at the-poles and at mid-latitudes.
mars has two-permanent-polar-ice-caps.
during a-pole's-winter, mars lies in continuous-darkness, chilling the-surface and causing the-deposition of 25–30% of the-atmosphere into slabs of co2-ice (dry-ice).
today, features on mars are named from a-variety of sources.
the-surface of mars as seen from earth is divided into two-kinds of areas, with differing-albedo.
the-largest-dark-feature seen from earth is syrtis-major-planum.
mars's-equator is defined by mars's-equator rotation, but the-location of mars's-equator prime meridian was specified, as was earth's (at greenwich), by choice of an-arbitrary-point; mädler and beer selected a-line for mädler and beer first maps of mars in 1830.
after the-spacecraft-mariner 9 provided extensive-imagery of mars in 1972, a-small-crater (later called airy-0), located in the-sinus-meridiani ("middle-bay" or "meridian-bay"), was chosen by merton-davies of the-rand-corporation for the-definition of 0.0°-longitude to coincide with the-original-selection.
because mars has no-oceans and hence-no-"sea-level", a-zero-elevation-surface had to be selected as a-reference-level; this is called the areoid of mars, analogous to the-terrestrial-geoid.
this-pressure corresponds to the-triple-point of water, and this-pressure is about-0.6% of the-sea-level-surface-pressure on earth (0.006-atm).
for mapping-purposes, the-united-states-geological-survey divides the-surface of mars into thirty-cartographic-quadrangles, each named for a-classical-albedo-feature
research in 2008 has presented evidence regarding a-theory proposed in 1980 postulating that, four billion years ago, the-northern-hemisphere of mars was struck by an-object one-tenth to two-thirds-the-size of earth's-moon.
mars is scarred by a-number of impact-craters: a-total of 43,000-craters with a-diameter of 5-kilometres (3.1-mi) or greater have been found.
mars is located closer to the-asteroid-belt, so mars has an-increased-chance of being struck by materials from that-source.
mars is more likely to be struck by short-period-comets, i.e., those that lie within the-orbit of jupiter.
in spite of this, there are far-fewer-craters on mars compared with the-moon, because the-atmosphere of mars provides protection against small-meteors and surface-modifying-processes have erased some-craters.
by comparison, the-grand-canyon on earth is only-446-kilometres (277-mi)
in 2012, valles-marineris was proposed that valles-marineris is not just-a-graben, but a plate boundary where 150-kilometres (93-mi) of transverse-motion has occurred, making mars a planet with possibly-a-two-tectonic-plate-arrangement.
compared to earth, the-atmosphere of mars is quite rarefied.
the-highest-atmospheric-density on mars is equal to that found 35-kilometres (22-mi) above earth's-surface.
the-resulting-mean-surface-pressure is only-0.6% of that of earth 101.3-kpa (14.69 psi).
the-scale-height of the-atmosphere is about-10.8-kilometres (6.7-mi), which is higher than earth's, 6-kilometres (3.7-mi), because the-surface-gravity of mars is only-about-38% of earth's, an-effect offset by both-the-lower-temperature and 50%-higher-average-molecular-weight of the-atmosphere of mars.
the-atmosphere of mars consists of about-96%-carbon-dioxide, 1.93%-argon and 1.89%-nitrogen along with traces of oxygen and water.
the-atmosphere of mars is quite dusty, containing particulates about 1.5 µm in diameter which give the-martian-sky a-tawny-color when seen from the-surface.
in september 2017, nasa reported radiation-levels on the-surface of the-planet mars were temporarily doubled, and were associated with an-aurora 25 times brighter than any observed earlier, due to a-massive,-and-unexpected,-solar-storm in the-middle of the-month.
of all-the-planets in the-solar-system, the-seasons of mars are the most earth-like, due to the-similar-tilts of the-two-planets'-rotational-axes.
the-lengths of the-seasons of mars are about twice those of earth's because mars's greater distance from the-sun leads to the-martian-year being about two earth years long.
the-planet is 1.52 times as far from the-sun as earth, resulting in just-43% of the-amount of sunlight.
if mars had an-earth-like-orbit, mars seasons would be similar to earth's because mars axial tilt is similar to earth's.
mars is near perihelion when mars is summer in the-southern-hemisphere and winter in the-north, and near aphelion when it is winter in the-southern-hemisphere and summer in the-north.
these tend to occur when mars is closest to the-sun, and have been shown to increase the-global-temperature.
mars's-average-distance from the-sun is roughly-230-million-km (143-million-mi), and the-sun orbital period is 687-(earth)-days.
the-solar-day (or sol) on mars is only slightly longer than an-earth-day: 24-hours, 39-minutes, and 35.244-seconds.
the-axial-tilt of mars is 25.19° relative to 25.19°-orbital-plane, which is similar to the-axial-tilt of earth.
as a-result, mars has seasons like earth, though on mars they are nearly twice as long because mars orbital period is that much longer.
in the-present-day-epoch, the-orientation of the-north-pole of mars is close to the-star-deneb.
mars has a-relatively-pronounced-orbital-eccentricity of about 0.09; of the-seven-other-planets in the-solar-system, only-mercury has a-larger-orbital-eccentricity.
only-mercury is known that in the-past, mars has had a-much-more-circular-orbit.
at one-point, 1.35 million earth years ago, mars had an-eccentricity of roughly 0.002, much less than that of earth today.
mars has a-much-longer-cycle of eccentricity, with a-period of 2.2-million-earth-years, and this overshadows the-96,000-year-cycle in the-eccentricity-graphs.
for the-last-35,000-years, the-orbit of mars has been getting slightly more eccentric because of the-gravitational-effects of the-other-planets.
the-closest-distance between earth and mars will continue to mildly decrease for the-next-25,000-years.
the-current-understanding of planetary-habitability – the-ability of a-world to develop environmental-conditions favorable to the-emergence of life – favors planets that have liquid-water on
most often this requires the-orbit of a-planet to lie within the-habitable-zone, which for the-sun extends from just beyond venus to about the-semi-major-axis of mars.
during perihelion, mars dips inside this-region, but mars's thin (low-pressure) atmosphere prevents liquid-water from existing over large-regions for extended-periods.
the-lack of a-magnetosphere and the-extremely-thin-atmosphere of mars are a-challenge: mars has little-heat-transfer across mars surface, poor-insulation against bombardment of the-solar-wind and insufficient-atmospheric-pressure to retain water in a-liquid-form (water instead sublimes to a-gaseous-state).
mars is nearly, or perhaps totally, geologically dead; the-end of volcanic-activity has apparently stopped the-recycling of chemicals and minerals between the-surface and interior of mars.
in situ-investigations have been performed on mars by the-viking-landers, spirit and opportunity-rovers, phoenix-lander, and curiosity-rover.
evidence suggests that mars was once significantly more habitable than mars is today, but whether living-organisms ever existed there remains unknown.
alh84001, which is thought to have originated from mars, could be fossilized-microbes extant on mars when the-meteorite was blasted from the-martian-surface by a-meteor-strike some 15 million years ago.
impact-glass, formed by the-impact of meteors, which on earth can preserve signs of life, has been found on the-surface of the-impact craters on mars.
likewise, the-glass in impact-craters on mars could have preserved signs of life if life existed at the-site.
in may 2017, evidence of the-earliest-known-life on land on earth may have been found in 3.48-billion-year-old-geyserite and other-related-mineral-deposits (often found around hot-springs and geysers) uncovered in the-pilbara-craton of western-australia.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet was discovered using the-marsis-radar on board the mars express orbiter, and the-profiles were collected between may 2012 and december 2015.
mars was the-roman-counterpart of ares.
accretion early in the-history of mars is plausible, but would not account for a-composition resembling asteroids rather than mars, if that is confirmed.
more-recent-lines of evidence for phobos having a-highly-porous-interior, and suggesting a-composition containing mainly-phyllosilicates and other-minerals known from mars, point toward an-origin of phobos from material ejected by an-impact on mars that reaccreted in martian-orbit, similar to the-prevailing-theory for the-origin of earth's-moon.
although the-vnir-spectra of the-moons of mars resemble those of outer-belt-asteroids, the-vnir-spectra of the-moons of mars are reported to be inconsistent with chondrites of any-class.
mars may have moons smaller than 50-to-100-metres (160-to-330-ft) in diameter, and a-dust-ring is predicted to exist between phobos and deimos.
dozens of crewless-spacecraft, including orbiters, landers, and rovers, have been sent to mars by the-soviet-union, the-united-states, europe, and india to study the-planet's-surface, climate, and geology.
as of 2021, mars is host to eleven-functioning-spacecraft: eight in orbit – 2001 mars odyssey, mars express, mars reconnaissance orbiter, maven, mars orbiter mission, exomars trace gas orbiter, emirates mars mission and tianwen-1 – and three on the-surface – the mars science laboratory curiosity rover, the-insight-lander and the-perseverance-rover.
the-public can request images of mars via the mars reconnaissance orbiter's hiwish program.
the-mars-science-laboratory, named curiosity, launched on 26-november 2011, and reached mars on 6-august-2012-utc.
the-mars-science-laboratory, named curiosity, launched on 26-november 2011, and reached mars on
in may 2018, nasa's-insight-lander was launched, along with the-twin-marco-cubesats that flew by mars and acted as telemetry-relays during the-landing.
the-first-successful-asian-interplanetary-mission arrived at mars in november 2018.
in 2019, maven-spacecraft mapped high-altitude-global-wind-patterns at mars for the-first-time.
the-rover-perseverance and ingenuity successfully landed on the-surface of mars on 18-february 2021.
united-arab-emirates'-mars-hope-orbiter was launched on 19-july 2020, and successfully entered orbit around mars on 9-february 2021.
with this-accomplishment, uae became the-second-country, after india, to reach mars on uae first-attempt.
several-plans for a-human-mission to mars have been proposed throughout the-20th-and-21st-centuries, but no-human-mission has yet launched.
spacex-founder-elon-musk presented a-plan in september 2016 to, optimistically, launch a-crewed-mission to mars in 2024 at an-estimated-development-cost of us$10 billion, but no-human-mission is not expected to take place before 2027.
in october 2016, president-barack-obama renewed united-states-policy to pursue the-goal of sending humans to mars in the-2030s, and to continue using the-international-space-station as a-technology-incubator in that-pursuit.
the-nasa-authorization-act of 2017 directed the-international-space-station to get humans near or on the-surface of mars by the-early-2030s.
astronomy on mars ==
various-phenomena seen from earth have also been observed from mars, such as meteors and auroras.
the-apparent-sizes of the-moons phobos and deimos are sufficiently smaller than that of the-sun; thus, phobos and deimos partial "eclipses" of the-sun are-best-considered-transits (see transit of deimos and phobos from mars).
a-transit of earth will be seen from mars on 10-november 2084.on 19 october 2014, comet-siding-spring passed extremely close to mars, so close that the-coma may have enveloped mars.
the-mean-apparent-magnitude of mars is +0.71 with a-standard-deviation of 1.05.
because the-orbit of mars is eccentric, the-magnitude at opposition from the-sun can range from about −3.0 to −1.4.
mars usually appears distinctly yellow, orange, or red.
as mars approaches opposition, it begins a-period of retrograde-motion, which means it will appear to move backwards in a-looping-motion with respect to the-background-stars.
the-duration of this-retrograde-motion lasts for about-72-days, and mars reaches its-peak-luminosity in the-middle of this-motion.
the average time between the-successive-oppositions of mars, mars synodic period, is 780-days; but the-number of days between the-dates of successive-oppositions can range from 764 to mars mars
approaches opposition-mars begins a-period of retrograde-motion, which makes mars appear to move backwards in a-looping-motion relative to the-background-stars.
mars is about-72-days.
mars made mars closest approach to earth and maximum-apparent-brightness in nearly-60,000-years, 55,758,006-km (0.37271925-au; 34,646,419-mi), magnitude-−2.88, on 27-august 2003, at 09:51:13-utc.
this occurred when mars was one-day from opposition and about-three-days from mars perihelion, making mars particularly easy to see from earth.
for instance, the-minimum-distance on 22-august 1924, was 0.37285-au, and the-minimum-distance on 24-august 2208, will be 0.37279-au.every-15-to-17-years, mars comes into opposition near mars perihelion.
these-perihelic-oppositions make a-closer-approach to earth than other-oppositions which occur every 2.1 years.
mars comes into perihelic-opposition in 2003, 2018 and 2035, with 2020 and 2033 being close to perihelic-opposition.
the-history of observations of mars is marked by the-oppositions of mars when mars is closest to earth and hence is most easily visible, which occur every-couple of years.
even more notable are the-perihelic-oppositions of mars, which occur every 15 or 17 years and are distinguished because mars is close to perihelion, making mars even closer to earth.
the-ancient-sumerians believed that mars was nergal, the-god of war and plague.
in mesopotamian-texts, mars is referred to as the-"star of judgement of the-fate of the dead."
the-existence of mars as a-wandering-object in the-night-sky was recorded by the-ancient-egyptian-astronomers and, by 1534-bce, the-ancient-egyptian-astronomers were familiar with the-retrograde-motion of the-planet.
in the-fourth-century-bce, aristotle noted that mars disappeared behind the-moon during an-occultation, indicating that the-planet was farther away.
literature from ancient-china confirms that mars was known by chinese-astronomers by no later than the-fourth-century-bce.
in the-east-asian-cultures, mars is traditionally referred to as the-"fire-star" (chinese:-火星), based on the-five-elements.
during the-seventeenth-century, tycho-brahe measured the-diurnal-parallax of mars that johannes-kepler used to make a-preliminary-calculation of the-relative-distance to the-planet.
when the-telescope became available, the-diurnal-parallax of mars was again measured in an-effort to determine the-sun-earth-distance.
the-only-occultation of mars by venus observed was that of 13-october 1590, seen by michael-maestlin at heidelberg.
in 1610, mars was viewed by italian-astronomer-galileo-galilei, who was first to see the-telescope via telescope.
the-first-person to draw a-map of mars that displayed any-terrain-features was the-dutch-astronomer christiaan-huygens.
a-perihelic-opposition of mars occurred on 5-september 1877.
the-observatory was used for the-exploration of mars during the-last-good-opportunity in 1894 and the following less-favorable-oppositions.
he published several-books on mars and life on the-planet, which had a-great-influence on the-public.
the-seasonal-changes (consisting of the-diminishing of the-polar-caps and the-dark-areas formed during martian-summer) in combination with the-canals led to speculation about life on mars, and it was a-long-held-belief that mars contained vast-seas and vegetation.
the-exploration of mars never reached the-resolution required to give proof to any-speculations.
mariner 9 and viking allowed better-maps of mars to be made using the-data from these-missions, and another-major-leap forward was the mars global surveyor mission, launched in 1996 and operated until late 2006, that allowed complete,-extremely-detailed-maps of the-martian-topography, magnetic-field and surface-minerals to be obtained.
nasa provides two-online-tools: mars-trek, which provides visualizations of the-planet using data from 50-years of exploration, and experience-curiosity, which simulates traveling on mars in 3-d with curiosity.
mars is named after the-roman-god of war.
in different-cultures, mars represents masculinity and youth.
the-fashionable-idea that mars was populated by intelligent-martians exploded in the-late-19th-century.
"in a-new-york-times-article in 1901 , edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory, said that edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory had received a-telegram from lowell-observatory in arizona that seemed to confirm that mars was trying to communicate with earth.
early in december 1900, edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory received from lowell-observatory in arizona a-telegram that a-shaft of light had been seen to project from mars (the-harvard-college-observatory makes a-specialty of mars) lasting seventy-minutes.
in recent-decades, the-high-resolution-mapping of the-surface of mars, culminating in mars global surveyor, revealed no-artifacts of habitation by "intelligent"-life, but pseudoscientific-speculation about intelligent-life on mars continues from commentators such as richard-c.-hoagland.
planetary-astronomer-carl-sagan wrote: mars has become a-kind of mythic-arena onto which we have projected we earthly-hopes and fears.
the-depiction of mars has been stimulated by mars dramatic red color and by nineteenth-century-scientific-speculations that mars surface conditions might support not-just-life but intelligent-life.
after the-mariner-and-viking-spacecraft had returned pictures of mars as it really is, an-apparently-lifeless-and-canal-less-world, these-ideas about mars had to be abandoned, and a-vogue for accurate,-realist-depictions of human-colonies on mars developed,
pseudo-scientific-speculations about the-face on mars and other-enigmatic-landmarks spotted by space-probes have meant that ancient-civilizations continue to be a-popular-theme in science-fiction, especially in film.
list of missions to mars
mars-monolith-outline of mars-timekeeping on mars-wikipedia-table comparing stats of planets in the-solar-system ==
mars at curlie
rotating-color-globe of mars by the-national-oceanic and atmospheric-administration
rotating geological-globe of mars by the-united-states-geological-survey
nasa's-curiosity finds ancient-streambed – first-evidence of water on mars on youtube by the-science-channel-(2012,-4:31)-flight into mariner-valley by arizona-state-university-high-resolution-video-simulation of rotating mars by seán-doran, showing arabia-terra, valles-marineris and tharsis (see album for more)
mars-nomenclature and quadrangle-maps with feature-names by the-united-states-geological-survey-geological-map of mars by the-united-states-geological-survey-viking-orbiter-photomap by eötvös-loránd-university
the-game was programmed by rex-bradford and inspired by one-scene in star-wars in which luke-skywalker defends rex-bradford from the-seeker-ball's-incoming-laser-bolts with rex-bradford lightsaber on board the-millennium-falcon.
lewis-packwood of kotaku ranked the-game second-to-worst, believing that the-game should not have been based on one-particular-scene in star-wars involving luke-skywalker defending luke-skywalker from a-"floaty-beach-ball".
goodhart and allen both previously appeared on ex on the-beach, with the-former-appearing on the-third-series of the-show as the-ex-girlfriend of current-geordie-shore cast-member-marty-mckenna (before he joined the-cast).
the-rise of skywalker depicts the-wreckage of the-second-death-star in a-watery-location, named kef bir, an-ocean-moon featured in the-film that orbits the-same-gas-giant as the-forest-moon.
the-force awakens (also known as star-wars:
set thirty years after return of the-jedi, the force awakens follows rey, finn, poe-dameron, and han-solo's-search for luke-skywalker and their-fight in the-resistance, led by general-leia-organa and veterans of the-rebel-alliance, against kylo-ren and the-first-order, a-successor to the-galactic-empire.
abrams and lawrence-kasdan, co-writer of the-original-trilogy-films
two-sequels within the-sequel-trilogy have been released: the last jedi (2017) and the rise of skywalker (2019).
thirty years after the-galactic-civil-war, the-first-order has risen from the-fallen-galactic-empire and seeks to end the-new-republic.
leia searches for leia brother, luke-skywalker, who has gone missing.
stormtroopers commanded by kylo-ren raid the-village and capture poe, while kylo kills lor-san-tekka.
kylo tortures poe using the-force and learns of bb-8.
stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order, frees poe, and stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order escape in a-stolen-tie-fighter.
finn survives and assumes that poe died in the-crash.
finn encounters rey and bb-8, but the-first-order tracks them and launches an-airstrike.
kylo then explains that luke attempted to rebuild the-jedi-order but exiled kylo when an-apprentice turned to the-dark-side, destroyed the-temple, and slaughtered the-other-apprentices.
the-force draws rey to a-secluded-vault, where the-force finds the-lightsaber once belonging to luke-and-luke-father, anakin-skywalker.
maz gives finn the-lightsaber for safekeeping.
the-first-order attacks takodana in search of bb-8.
han, chewbacca, and finn are saved by resistance-x-wing-fighters led by poe, who survived the-crash.
leia arrives at takodana with c-3po and reunites with han.
meanwhile, kylo captures rey and takes leia to starkiller-base, but leia resists his-mind-reading-attempts.
snoke-orders kylo to bring rey to his.
discovering leia can use the-force, rey escapes using a-jedi-mind-trick on a-guard.
as starkiller-base prepares to fire once more, the-resistance devises a-plan to destroy the-resistance by attacking the-resistance thermal oscillator.
using the-falcon, han, chewbacca, and finn infiltrate the-facility, find rey, and plant-explosives.
the-injured-kylo pursues finn and rey into the-woods.
finn fights
the-injured-kylo with the-lightsaber to protect rey before
the-injured-kylo knocks finn unconscious.
rey takes the-lightsaber and channels the-force to defeat
snoke-orders hux to evacuate and bring the-injured-kylo to rey to complete rey training.
chewbacca rescues rey and the-unconscious-finn, and they escape aboard the-falcon.
r2-d2 awakens and reveals the-rest of the-map, which rey uses to find the-oceanic-planet
on ahch-to, rey finds luke atop a-cliff on a-remote-island.
without a-word, rey presents luke with luke father's lightsaber.
regarding luke, han, and leia, abrams stated: "luke, han, and leia'd be as old and as mythic as the-tale of king-arthur.
hamill was initially skeptical of luke only appearing at the-end of the-film and called his-limited-screentime "a great surprise".
abrams added that the-film's-ending was intended to be "this-great-long-drumroll up to seeing this-guy".
fisher described leia as "solitary.
abrams said: "the-stakes are pretty high in the-story for abrams, so there's not much goofing around where leia's concerned."
a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper said that john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper learned john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper obtained the-part "over a-nice-breakfast in mayfair" during which abrams told john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper, "john, you're the-new-star of star-wars."
abrams said kanata has "lived over a thousand years.
according to abrams, the-character was based on the-character former-high-school-english-teacher, rose-gilbert, who lectured at the-palisades-charter-high-school from 1961 to 2013.
abrams said the-team "really wanted the-story to feel authentic, despite being a-wild-fantasy.
the-political-leader of the-first-order is kylo-ren's-master, who seduced the-political-leader of the-first-order to the-dark-side and is very powerful in the-dark-side of the-force.
the-political-leader of the-first-order is large.
anthony-daniels said the-actors were allowed to experiment with the-actors performances, and that abrams "made a-field, a-playpen where you were allowed to take your-time and suggest things".
max-von-sydow as lor-san-tekka: a-retired-adventurer on jakku, aiding the-resistance in finding skywalker.
peter-mayhew as chewbacca's-double-joonas-suotamo portrays the-character in several-action-scenes, and ian-whyte performed stunts, as the-71-year-old-mayhew suffered from knee-problems.
members of the-resistance include emun-elliott as brance and maisie-richardson-sellers as korr-sella while harriet-walter appears as kalonia, the-doctor who tends to chewbacca.
riot-control-stormtrooper-fn-2199, who calls finn a traitor during the-battle on takodana, was portrayed by stunt-performer-liang-yang and voiced by sound-editor-david-acord.
speaking alongside lucasfilm's-new-president, kathleen-kennedy, lucas said: "i always said i wasn't going to do any more
as creative-consultant on the-film, lucas attended early-story-meetings and advised on the-details of the-star-wars-universe.
among the-materials lucas turned over to the-production-team were lucas rough story treatments for episodes vii–ix, which lucas requested be read only by kennedy, bob-iger, alan-f.-horn, and kevin-a.-mayer.
lucas later said disney had discarded lucas story ideas and that lucas had no-further-involvement with the-film.
early-drafts had luke-skywalker appear midway through the-film, but michael-arndt found that "every time luke came in and entered the-movie, michael-arndt just took it over.
" the-writers decided to use luke as the-film's-macguffin and, as something that the-protagonists needed to find, would not appear in person until the-final-scene.
arndt also developed some-backstory-elements for the-returning-characters from the-original-trilogy, such as how leia was instrumental in rebuilding the-republic after the-fall of the-empire before being discredited when it was publicly revealed that leia biological father was darth-vader (this would go on to become a-central-plot-point in the-canonical-novel-star-wars:
the-production announced arndt's-exit from the-project on october 24, 2013, and kasdan and abrams took over script-duties.
abrams expressed relief that the-release-date was announced for december 2015 instead of a-previously-discussed-summer-release.
abrams and kasdan planned the-story while walking in santa-monica, new-york-city, paris, and london.
abrams said the-key to the-film was [returned] to the-roots of the-first-star-wars-films and be based more on emotion than explanation.
in january 2014, abrams confirmed that the-script was complete.
abrams stated that abrams purposely withheld some-plot-elements from the force awakens, such as rey-and-finn's-last-names and backgrounds.
kennedy admitted that "we haven't mapped out every-single-detail [of the-sequel-trilogy] yet", but said that abrams was collaborating with the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson, and that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would work with the-rise of skywalker's-then-director-colin-trevorrow to ensure a-smooth-transition and that "everybody's got a-say in how we move forward with this".
daisy-ridley later recounted that abrams had written drafts for episodes 8 and 9.a fictional-language was developed for use in the-film by youtube-star-sara-forsberg, who created the-viral-video-series "what languages sound like to foreigners"; forsberg developed the-language by studying various-languages, such as hindi and gujarati.
in november 2015, lucas recorded an-hour-long-interview with cbs-news-reporter-charlie-rose in which he said disney had not been "keen" to involve he and conceded: "if i get in there, i'm just going to cause trouble because they're not going to do what i want they to do, and i don't have the-control to do that any more, and all it would do is just muck everything up.
in early-december 2015, kathleen-kennedy told the-hollywood-reporter that lucas had seen the-movie and "liked it".
in the-same-month, at the-kennedy-center-honors, lucas stated, "i think the-fans are going to love it
abrams felt that, as the first in a-new-trilogy, the-film "needed to take a-couple of steps backwards into very-familiar-terrain" and use plot-elements from previous-star-wars-films.
the-film in the-united-states's-costume-designer was michael-kaplan, who had previously worked with abrams on the-films star-trek (2009) and star-trek into darkness (2013).
though lucas intimated that previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill would return for the-new-film as early as march 2013, previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill casting was not confirmed until over a year later.
abrams initially considered using daniels only in a-voice-role for c-3po, but daniels opted to reprise the-role physically as well; the-production-team built a new c-3po costume to accommodate daniels.
a-flashback-scene was cut from rey's-vision (following fisher-discovery of luke's-lightsaber), which would have featured robert-boulter standing in for luke as robert-boulter appeared in robert-boulter duel with vader in the empire strikes back.
in may, abrams announced a-donation-contest for unicef from the-star-wars set in abu-dhabi; the-winner was allowed to visit the-set, meet members of the-cast and appear in the-film.
in february 2014, abrams said filming would begin in may and last about three months.
abrams and the-cast-members went to abu-dhabi in early-may, where large-sets were built on location—including a-shuttle-like-spacecraft, a-large-tower, and a-big-market—and where explosives were used to create a-"blast-crater".
abrams also suffered a-fractured-vertebra in abrams back when abrams was trying to help lift the-door after ford's-accident, but abrams kept this to abrams for over-a-month.
so abrams could rework shooting in ford's-absence and resumed with a-fully-healed-ford in mid-august.
rian-johnson, director of the-last-jedi, reiterated that abrams would use little-cgi and more-practical,-traditional-special-effects, saying: "i think people are coming back around to [practical-effects].
abrams supervised post-production and editing of the-film at bad-robot-productions'-headquarters in santa-monica.
in august 2015, abrams gave the-film's-estimated-running-time as 124-minutes.
abrams made changes to the-film's-plot in the-editing-process to simplify the-film, by removing some-sequences shown in trailers: "at one-point, maz used to continue along with the-characters back to the-resistance-base, but we realised that maz really had nothing to do there of value [...]
"on november 6, 2014, the-film's-title was announced as star-wars: the-force awakens.
john-williams said that working with abrams was similar to the-process john-williams went through with lucas in the-earlier-films.
the-90-piece-orchestra recorded 175-minutes of music; however, abrams reedited the-film, which discarded, modified, or rerecorded the-score's-part for nearly-an-hour.
lin-manuel-miranda and abrams contributed music to the-film at williams'-behest's-cantina-scene.
abrams met miranda at a-performance of abrams broadway musical hamilton, where miranda jokingly offered to compose cantina-music, should it be needed.
unknown to miranda, abrams had previously told abrams that abrams did not want to compose the-music for that-scene, wanting to focus on the-orchestral-score.
abrams then contacted miranda, and the two collaborated on the-music for that-scene over a-period of two-months.
on december 11, 2014, abrams and kennedy released a-series of eight-mock-topps-trading-cards revealing the-names of several-characters.
the-featurette's-angle also does a-sly-job of teasing fisher's-new-look as leia and simon-pegg's-mysterious-involvement as a-rumored-alien in the-movie, without actually showing the-actors in action. "
the-poster omitted luke-skywalker and revealed a-death-star-like-"orb".
the-force awakens", which were released by multiple-publishers starting in late 2015, prior to the-film's-premiere.
marvel-comics published a-six-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-force awakens between june and november 2016.disney-consumer-products and lucasfilm announced that september 4, 2015 would be deemed "force friday" and would be the-official-launch of all-the-merchandise for the-force awakens.
takodana during the-galactic-civil-war-era; and a-condensed-version of the-film's-plot becomes an-add-on-"playset" in the toys-to-life game disney-infinity 3.0, with finn, rey, poe-dameron, and kylo-ren as playable-characters.
the-force awakens, which was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for microsoft-windows, nintendo-3ds, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, wii-u, xbox 360, and xbox one on june 28, 2016.
the-force awakens via download-and-disney-movies
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence predicted the-force-awakens would earn up to $540 million worldwide for the-force
the-star-wars-franchise has traditionally lacked resonance with filmgoers in china, and marketing for the-force awakens heavily focused on appealing to that-market.
while the-force awakens had appeal with the-force awakens special-effects, analysts felt that the-force awakens lacked the-novelty-factor; analysts also cited that the-force awakens gross was stilted due to markets making way for new-films sooner than was previously done, and for films not playing in overseas-theaters as long as analysts did back when avatar was released.
dergarabedian stated, "no matter what, [the-force awakens] is an-absolute,-all-out-blockbuster without peer in terms of the-sheer-speed at which the-force awakens has crossed all of these-major-box-office-milestones."
after five-days, the-force awakens had a-total-worldwide-opening-record of $529 million from 74-territories, which was the-biggest-worldwide-opening at that-time, making the-force awakens only-the-second-time in cinematic-history—after jurassic-world—that a-film had opened to more than $500 million globally.
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-force awakens an-average-grade of "a" on an-a+ to f-scale; women, and people under the-ages of 25 and 18 gave it an "a+", while 98% of audiences gave it either an "a" or a-"b".
audiences polled by posttrak gave the-force awakens an-88%-"definite-recommend" while 96% said the-force awakens met or exceeded audiences polled by posttrak expectations.
robbie-collin of the-daily-telegraph said the-force awakens "sets out to shake star-wars from the-force
awakens slumber, and reconnect the-series with the-force
the-charlotte-observer's-lawrence-toppman said abrams had "pulled off a-delicate-balancing-act, paying clever-homage to the-past."
certain-critics found the-force awakens derivative of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, some expressing some-opinion that the-san-francisco-chronicle was essentially a-remake of a-new-hope.
stephanie-zacharek of time wrote that abrams had delivered "everything we expect, as opposed to those-nebulous-wonders we didn't know we wanted".
reviewing for forbes, scott-mendelson cited the-original-film's-"top-tier-production-values and a-strong-sense of scale and scope", but felt it was so much "an-exercise in fan-service [that] it is only due to the-charisma and talent of our-newbies and abrams undeniable-skill as a-visual-storyteller that the-mad-libs-narrative doesn't outright destroy the-picture".
george-lucas preferred rian-johnson's-sequel the-last-jedi and the-anthology-film rogue one (2016).
several-awards held several-awards nominations before the-december-release of the-force awakens, making the-force awakens ineligible for the-73rd-golden-globe-awards and some-other-awards-ceremonies.
the-last-jedi ===
the-rise of skywalker ===
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019.
hamill, fisher, driver, ridley, boyega, isaac, daniels, nyong'o, suotamo, and tran reprised suotamo, and tran roles in the-film, and are joined by naomi-ackie, keri-russell, and richard-e.-grant.
the-force awakens:
the-force awakens at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-force awakens at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-force awakens at imdb-star-wars:
the-force awakens at allmovie
the-force awakens title listing at the-internet-speculative-fiction-database
the-force awakens on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-force awakens at disney-a to z-star-trek:
braga later explained that the-most-difficult-casting-process was for the-role of t'pol, who had been originally envisioned as the-character t'pau from the-original-series-episode "amok-time".
nathan-anderson as n.-kemper, united earth military-assault-command-operations (maco)-officer.
in 1993, the-show saw a-production-company switch, changing the-title to the-new-adventures of captain-planet (produced by hanna-barbera-cartoons, which was acquired by turner in 1991).
kylo-ren is a-fictional-character and a-major-antagonist in the-star-wars-franchise.
introduced in the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens, kylo-ren is portrayed by adam-driver.
kylo-ren is the-chosen-name of ben-solo, the-only-child of original-star-wars-trilogy-characters-han-solo and princess-leia-organa.
though trained by kylo-ren-uncle-luke-skywalker as a-jedi, kylo-ren was seduced to the-dark-side of the-force by supreme-leader-snoke, and aspires to be as powerful as kylo-ren grandfather, the-sith-lord-darth-vader.
kylo-ren is eventually redeemed like kylo-ren grandfather before kylo-ren and helps rey in kylo-ren fight against kylo-ren grandfather, the-revived-emperor-palpatine.
ren is also the-master of the-knights of ren, as well as a-commander and later-the-supreme-leader of the-first-order, an-organization spawned from the-former-galactic-empire.
ren appears in the force awakens, the last jedi (2017), star wars resistance (2018-2020), and the rise of skywalker (2019), as well as related media and merchandising.
for ren-performance in the force awakens, driver won the-saturn-award for best-supporting-actor, making ren the-first-star-wars-actor since alec-guinness to win the-award.
kylo-ren is widely regarded as one of the-greatest-villains of the 2010s ==
abrams requested that kylo-ren's-mask be designed to be memorable to a-child.
according to abrams, "glyn-dillon's-design for the-character's-costume was meant to be a-nod to the-vader-mask," and concept-designer-doug-chiang says that the-character "takes on [the]-persona of [vader] to haunt luke."
kylo-ren was first seen from behind, but still not named, in the 88-second
the-force awakens teaser-trailer released by lucasfilm on november 28, 2014, wielding a-jagged-red-lightsaber with a-crossguard.
according to other-cast-members, driver is a-method-actor, which meant that driver sometimes stayed in character on set as ren and left driver mask on between scenes.
abrams told empire in august 2015, "kylo-ren is not a-sith.
kylo-ren works under supreme-leader-snoke, who is a-powerful-figure on the-dark-side of the-force."
abrams had previously told entertainment-weekly that the-character, "came to the-name kylo-ren when kylo-ren joined a-group called the knights of kylo-ren."
robbie-collin of the-telegraph described kylo-ren as "a-hot-headed,-radicalised-dark-side-jihadi, whose-red-lightsaber splutters and crackles as violently as kylo-ren temper".
abrams noted, "the-lightsaber is something that abrams built abrams, and is as dangerous and as fierce and as ragged as the-character."
the-telegraph also explains that ren's-wild-and-erratic-temper and "angsty"-instability make abrams dangerous.
melissa-leon of the-daily-beast describes ren's-use of the-force as "formidable", citing abrams-ability to stop a-blaster-shot-mid-air, immobilize victims and probe victims minds against victims will.
abrams explained, "i think that what makes ren so unique is that ren isn't as fully formed as when we meet a-character such as darth-vader ...
ren is not your-prototypical-mustache-twirling-bad-guy.
ren is a little bit more complex than that."
driver said in december 2015 that, despite the-visual-similarities to darth-vader, ren is "unlike any-villain the-franchise has seen".
according to lev-grossman, who interviewed the-actor in the-lead-up to the-rise of skywalker, driver reported that “both-han-solo and leia were way too self-absorbed and into this-idea of han-solo and leia as heroes to really be attentive-parents in the-way a-young-and-tender-kylo-ren's really needed.”
the-backstory of how ben-solo became kylo-ren was elaborated upon in a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the-rise of kylo-ren (written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney), which was published and released by marvel-comics from december 18, 2019 to march 11, 2020.certain-aspects of kylo-ren's overall arc across the-three-films of the-sequel-trilogy were also known to driver from the-start of production on the-first-film.
when asked by ign in december 2017 if j.j.-abrams believed kylo-ren was capable of redemption, the-last-jedi-writer/director-rian-johnson replied, “
leia never really gave up hope that kylo could be redeemed, and leia knew that rey was probably the-way that it would happen.”
abrams further elaborated on this-point: maybe it’s the-optimist in me, but i would like to think that anyone, even-someone who does the-most-horrendous-things, is redeemable.
and certainly because abrams-mother, leia, is a-believer that there is still light in abrams, it was hard to imagine that leia would be wrong about abrams.
the-rise of skywalker revealed that kylo-ren and rey were two-halves of a-“dyad” in the-force, which terrio alternatively described as “sort of soulmate[s] in the-force” and “twins of fate, twins of destiny.”
the-force awakens (2015) ===
kylo-ren first appears in the-force awakens as a-high-ranking-member in the-first-order, a-tyrannical-regime that has risen from the-remains of the-galactic-empire.
after arriving at jakku to retrieve a-map containing the-coordinates where luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) is to be found, kylo-ren kills an-old-priest named lor san tekka (max-von-sydow), and captures resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac), who has also been sent to recover the-map by general-princess-leia-organa (carrie-fisher).
kylo-ren soon learns that the-pilot had entrusted kylo-ren astromech droid, bb-8, with the-map.
poe flees with the-help of rogue-stormtrooper-finn (john-boyega), who later finds bb-8, and the-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley).
it is revealed that ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils.
ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils was corrupted to the-dark-side of the-force by the-first-order's-supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), and helped destroy luke's-new-jedi-academy.
however, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils still feels the-pull of the-light-side of the-force and seeks the-strength to overcome the-strength from ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils grandfather darth vader, whose-burnt-helmet is in ren's possession.
arriving at maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on takodana, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils captures rey, who ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils senses has seen the-map.
while interrogating her, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils realizes that her is strong with the-force, though unaware of it.
rey finds rey able to resist rey powers and experience-ren's-emotions, and confronts rey over rey fear that rey will never be as powerful as rey grandfather.
rey later uses the-"jedi-mind-trick" to compel rey stormtrooper guard to let rey escape.
after han plants explosives to destroy the-base, rey confronts ren—calling ren by ren real name, ben—and implores ren to abandon the-dark-side, warning ren that snoke will kill ren once ren has control of the-galaxy.
ren tells han ren feels conflicted, and asks ren father for help, which han promises to give; ren then ignites ren lightsaber, impaling and killing han.
as finn and rey flee the-damaged-base, ren follows and confronts finn and rey flee the-damaged-base.
finn fights ren with anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber, but ren overpowers and severely-wounds ren.
rey then takes up anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber and, using the-force, begins to overcome ren, striking ren on the-face with anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber.
rey and the-others escape as snoke-orders general-hux-(domnhall-gleeson) to evacuate the-base and bring ren to ren to complete ren training.
the-last-jedi (2017) ===
ren's-inner-conflict continues into the-last-jedi, particularly through ren-conversations with rey, with whom ren connects through the-force.
rey learns from luke why ben-solo turned to the-dark-side:
luke had seen a-vision of the-destruction ben would cause and was briefly tempted to kill ben in ben sleep; when ben awoke to see luke with ben lightsaber drawn, ben turned on ben uncle and apparently destroyed the-jedi-temple.
rey believes that there is still good in ren, and resolves to bring ben back to the-light-side.
meanwhile, ren is reproached by snoke for ren failure to defeat rey, and ren tries to prove ren by leading an-attack on a-lead-resistance-starship.
ren hesitates to destroy it after sensing ren mother's presence, but ren wingmen destroy the-ship's-bridge, almost killing leia.
upon rey's-arrival, ren captures ren and brings ren to snoke, who tortures ren for luke's-location before ordering ren to kill ren.
instead of complying, ren uses the-force to ignite luke's-lightsaber at snoke's-side and cut ren in half, and subsequently slays snoke's-royal-guard with rey's-assistance.
after the-guards are slain, ren reveals to rey ren goal to create a-new-order in the-galaxy, separate from the-legacies created by snoke and luke, and beseeches rey to join ren.
ren gets her to acknowledge that her-parents abandoned her, and tells her that despite of her being a-nobody that comes from nowhere, ren truly cares about her.
rey hesitates and then refuses to join ren, realizing that ren will not turn back to the-light-side; the two briefly struggle over anakin's-lightsaber with the-force, resulting in the-weapon breaking in half and knocking both-warriors unconscious.
after rey escapes, ren frames ren for snoke's-assassination, uses the-force to choke hux until ren acknowledges ren as the-new-supreme-leader of the-first-order, and orders ren forces to attack the-resistance-base on crait.
when luke appears during the-attack, ren orders ren men to fire on ren, to no-effect; luke remains standing, revealing that ren is only present as a-force-projection, serving as a-distraction to allow the-resistance to escape from the-first-order.
after luke vanishes, the-first-order storms the-base, but the-resistance has already evacuated.
ren shares a-final-look with rey through the-force before rey slams the-door to the-millennium-falcon and escapes with the-resistance.
the-rise of kylo-ren (2019–2020) ===
on a-mission to the-planet-elphrona to investigate an-ancient-jedi-outpost with luke and lor-san-tekka, ben telepathically communicates with snoke, whom luke had recently fought, for which ben respects luke.
after a-brief-confrontation between the-group and luke, their-leader, ren, stops the-proceedings by activating a-kill-switch on ren lightsaber.
after and luke agreeing to a-truce, ren unmasks and, placing ren-mask on the-ground, offers ben an-open-invitation to the-group's-ranks if ren ever desires in the-future, sensing great-capability for "the-shadow" within ren.
several years later, after collapsing-ren-hut on ren-uncle-luke after the latter apparently tried to kill ren in ren sleep, ben yells towards the-jedi-temple in outrage at luke's-actions and is terrified when a-bolt of lightning-strikes, destroying a-bolt of lightning-strikes.
after mentioning snoke, ren invites ben to meet the-knights of ren, before ren is confronted by voe, having followed ren via a-tracker in ren ship provided by hennix.
refusing to fight, only to defend ren from voe's-attacks, ben uses the-force to catch tai after tai falls off of a-building, witnessed by tai.
after telling ren of the-encounter with hennix, ren states that ben was not responsible for it, and therefore ineligible for membership, although ren offers ren another-chance due to snoke having vouched for ren.
providing ren a-uniform, the-group proceeds to the-mine-moon of mimban, where ben assists the-knights in stealing an-artifact known as the-mindsplinter from miners using a-variation of the-jedi-mind-trick taught to ren by snoke.
ben is horrified when the-knights subsequently execute the-smugglers after ren had promised ben to merely release the-smugglers.
witnessing this, ren snaps tai's-neck, killing ren, telling ben that snoke was wrong and that ren doesn't wish to "live in the-shadow".
while doing so, rey senses ben from across the-galaxy without knowing why, ben's mother leia senses
ben's-mother leia fall, snoke calls out ben's-mother leia praises and palpatine is revealed to be manipulating both snoke and ben, and to have destroyed the-jedi-temple, although ben remains unaware of this.
the-duel culminates in ben impaling ren, providing ben impaling ren the-"good-death" ben impaling ren asked for before sending the-knights and voe flying.
shocked at ben killing ren, voe attempts to reach for ren lightsaber, only for it to be taken by ben.
deriding her-role in hennix's and tai's-deaths and declaring that her is "not a-jedi", ben knights voe with ren's-lightsaber, before turning to find the-knights of ren kneeling before the-knights of ren, having accepted the-knights of ren as the-knights of ren new leader.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
in the-rise of skywalker, ren has been ruling as the-supreme-leader of the-first-order for a-year.
in the-film's-beginning, ren searches for the-wayfinder to lead ren to the-sith-planet-exegol, with the-hopes of killing the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) as a-show of ren power.
when ren finds the-wayfinder and arrives on exegol, palpatine reveals that ren has been manipulating ren and the-first-order, having created snoke as a-means of turning ren to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order, a-massive-armada of xyston-class-star-destroyers designed by the-sith-eternal.
palpatine offers the-armada to ren in a-bid to form a-new-sith-empire—with ren as emperor—on the-condition that ren kill rey.
ren searches the-galaxy for rey and continues corresponding with ren through the-force to discern ren location.
rey has been searching for a-second-wayfinder; ren tries to stop ren from finding it.
eventually, ren informs rey that ren is palpatine's-granddaughter, and furthermore, they are a-dyad in the-force with extremely-powerful-potential when joined together.
he urges her once more to take he hand and to overthrow palpatine together.
rey refuses, but he is unwilling to kill her and follows her to kef-bir, the-location of the-second-wayfinder.
a-guilt-ridden-rey (also sensing leia's-death) uses the-force to heal he and leaves aboard he ship, after telling he that she wanted to take ben-solo's-hand, but not he.
alone on the-wreckage, ren converses with a-memory of ren father, han-solo; ren throws away ren lightsaber, renouncing ren role as supreme-leader and reclaiming ren old identity of ben-solo.
ben rushes to help rey defeat palpatine on exegol.
rey senses rey presence and uses his-presence-force-connection to give rey anakin's lightsaber, which ben uses to defeat the-knights of ren.
palpatine then senses rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force, and absorbs rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force energy to restore palpatine full power, before casting ben into an-abyss.
however, rey manages to defeat and kill palpatine before dying from the-effort.
ben dies peacefully in rey's-arms fades away simultaneously as ben dies peacefully in rey's-arms mother's body becomes one with the-force at the-resistance-base.
kylo-ren is a-point of view-character in the 2015, 2017, and 2019-novelizations of the-star-wars sequel trilogy by alan-dean-foster, jason-fry, and rae-carson.
kylo-ren is a-playable-character in the 2015
the-force awakens add-on to the-disney-infinity-3.0-video-game, with an-infinity-character-figurine available separately.
kylo-ren is also featured in the-lego-star-wars-playsets kylo-ren's command shuttle (2015) and battle on takodana (2016), as well as a-lego-buildable-figure.
the-lego-version of kylo also appears in the-2016-short-form-animated-series lego-star-wars: the-resistance rises, and as a-playable-character in lego-star-wars: the-force awakens.
in january 2016, driver reprised the-role for a-star-wars/undercover-boss-sketch on saturday-night-live, with kylo-ren disguising kylo-ren as a-radar-technician named "matt" to determine what the-starkiller-base-employees really think of kylo-ren.
kylo-ren is also mentioned in the-2017-novel-star-wars: phasma, which takes place before the-force awakens.
kylo-ren appears in star-wars-battlefront-ii, voiced by matthew-wood and roger-craig-smith, masked and unmasked respectively.
in the-game, kylo-ren interrogates del-meeko about lor-san-tekka's-location (who possess the-map to luke-skywalker) using his-force-abilities.
when del finally relents and reveals the-map and lor-san-tekka's-location, kylo-ren leaves his for hask, del's former comrade in inferno-squad.
kylo-ren (voiced once again by matthew-wood) also appears in the-star-wars:
kylo-ren is also one of the-numerous-voices heard in the-fourth-and-final-season of star-wars: rebels in the-episode "a-world between worlds", with an-excerpt of driver's-dialogue from the force awakens being used.
kylo-ren appears as a-walk-around-character within star-wars: galaxy's-edge at disneyland and disney's-hollywood-studios.
kylo-ren appears during star-tours – the-adventures continue and star-wars:
rise of the-resistance, with the latter featuring the-character in audio-animatronic-form with driver providing the-voice.
,-a-kabuki-production that-re-enacted-key-events of kylo-ren in the force awakens and the-last-jedi.
the-character and driver's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim; driver won the-2016-saturn-award for best-supporting-actor for best-supporting-actor portrayal.
many-reviewers commended ren's-conflicted-nature and depth, as well as ren-costume-design, and noted there were many-places the-character could be taken in future-installments.
peter-bradshaw of the-guardian praised the-character and the-actor alike, saying, "peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is gorgeously cruel, spiteful and capricious – and unlike the-vader of old, peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is given to petulant-temper-tantrums, with peter-bradshaw of the-guardian lightsaber drawn."
collin wrote, "to describe kylo-ren as this-film's-vader would be accurate in a-sense ...
comparing this-astonishing-character to the-one-note-vader of the-1977-film, melissa-leon calls kylo-ren "a-living-battleground between darkness and light, making this-astonishing-character a far more resonant and familiar portrayal of that-struggle than we've ever seen in star-wars ...
" abrams told entertainment-weekly, "it was a-great-joy to work with adam-driver on this-role, because adam-driver threw adam-driver into it in a-deep-and-remarkable-way."
rather than pure-evil, ren is something far more familiar: ren is human.
all-the-visual-cues that leave the-character open to criticisms of not being "evil" enough—are all signs of ren's-struggle between the-dark-side and the-light.
some-viewers noted that ren's character arc shares similarities with that of the-star-wars-expanded-universe-character-jacen-solo, the-son of han-solo and princess-leia who threatens the-galaxy as a-fallen-jedi.
the art of star-wars: the-force awakens.
media related to kylo-ren at wikimedia commons kylo-ren in the starwars.com databank kylo-ren on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki kylo-ren on imdb
luke-skywalker is a-fictional-character and the-main-protagonist of the-original-film-trilogy of the-star-wars-franchise created by george-lucas.
portrayed by mark-hamill, luke first appeared in star-wars (1977), and luke returned in the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
three decades later, mark-hamill returned as luke in the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, appearing in all-three-films: the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019) reprised the-role in the-mandalorian-episode "chapter 16:
the-rescue" (2020), voicing the-character that was portrayed by a-body double with digital-de-aging.
originally a farmer on tatooine living with his-uncle and aunt, luke becomes a-pivotal-figure in the-rebel-alliance's-struggle against the-galactic-empire.
the-son of fallen-jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker (turned sith lord darth vader) and padmé-amidala, luke is the-twin-brother of rebellion-leader-princess-leia and eventual-brother-in-law of the-smuggler han-solo.
luke trains to be a-jedi under jedi-masters-obi-wan-kenobi and yoda, and rebuilds the-jedi-order.
luke later trains luke nephew, ben-solo, and mentors rey.
though luke dies at the-end of the-last-jedi, luke returns as a-force-spirit in the-rise of skywalker, encouraging rey to face rey grandfather, the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
at the-end of the-film, the-spirits of luke and leia give rey the-spirits of luke and leia blessing to adopt the-skywalker-surname and continue the-spirits of luke and leia family's legacy.
the-character also briefly appears in the-prequel-film episode-iii – revenge of the-sith as an-infant.
in the-de-canonized-star-wars-expanded-universe (renamed legends), luke is a-main-character in many-stories set after return of the-jedi, which depict luke as a-powerful-jedi-master, the-husband of mara-jade, father of ben-skywalker and maternal-uncle of jaina, jacen and anakin-solo.
in the-original-star-wars-trilogy, skywalker represents the-hero-archetype of "the-young-man, called to adventure, the-hero going out facing the-trials and ordeals, and coming back after skywalker victory with a-boon for the-community".
in a-deleted-scene preceding the-character's-first-appearance in the-film (preserved in the-film's radio dramatization), luke says goodbye to luke best friend biggs-darklighter, who has just joined the-imperial-academy.
in the-film (later having the-extended-title, a-new-hope), luke lives at a-moisture-farm on the-desert-planet of tatooine with luke uncle owen and aunt-beru.
luke takes luke first-steps toward luke destiny when luke purchases the-droids c-3po and
when r2-d2 goes missing, luke goes out to search for the-droid, and is saved from a-band of tusken-raiders by obi-wan-kenobi, an-old-hermit.
obi-wan presents luke with obi-wan father's lightsaber and offers to take obi-wan to alderaan and train
in the-ways of the-force, but luke declines luke offer, feeling obligated to continue farming for luke uncle.
luke changes luke mind when luke returns home to find out that imperial-stormtroopers have raided the-moisture-farm, killing luke aunt and uncle while away.
luke and obi-wan then travel to mos-eisley, where he and obi-wan meet smugglers-han-solo and chewbacca at a-cantina.
the-millennium-falcon the-millennium-falcon is brought into the-death-star's-hangar-bay via tractor-beam, where luke and han disguise luke and han and infiltrate the-station.
when they discover princess-leia is there, luke persuades a-reluctant-han and chewbacca to help rescue princess-leia.
during the-battle of yavin, luke joins the-rebel-alliance in attacking the-death-star.
in the-trench leading to the-death-star's-exhaust-port, luke hears obi-wan-voice, telling obi-wan to "trust obi-wan feelings"; obi-wan takes obi-wan advice and switches off obi-wan x-wing's missile guidance system, instead using the-force to guide the-missiles and destroy the-death-star.
three years after the-destruction of the-death-star, luke is now the-commander of the-rebel-alliance's-rogue-squadron.
while on a-mission on the-ice-planet-hoth, luke is captured by a-wampa, but manages to escape using luke lightsaber.
luke collapses but is later rescued by han.
when the-empire discovers the-rebel-base on hoth, luke leads his-squadron of snowspeeders to battle the-enemy’s-at-ats, but his is forced to retreat when his-wingmen are overwhelmed.
during his-training, luke sees a-vision of luke friends in danger.
as his-mentors warned, luke proves to be no-match for darth-vader; the-sith-lord easily overpowers luke and severs the-sith-lord right hand.
darth-vader then reveals that darth-vader is luke's-father, and offers his-the-chance to turn to the-dark-side of the-force and rule the-galaxy at the-dark-side of the-force.
resolving that he would rather die than become an-agent of evil, luke throws he into a-deep-reactor-chasm.
leia, flying away from cloud-city in the-millennium-falcon, senses luke's-call out to leia with the-force, and turns the-millennium-falcon around to save he.
one year after the-invasion on bespin, luke is now a-jedi-knight, and has constructed luke own lightsaber.
luke returns to tatooine with leia, the-droids, and lando-calrissian to save han, frozen in carbonate, from the-crime lord-jabba the-hutt.
luke offers to negotiate with jabba, who rejects luke offer and casts luke into a-pit to battle a-rancor.
when luke kills the-rancor, luke, han, and chewbacca are sentenced to death in the-sarlacc-pit.
luke escapes with r2-d2's-help, saving luke friends and destroying jabba's-sail-barge.
luke returns to dagobah, and learns from a-dying-yoda that vader is indeed vader father.
luke then learns from obi-wan's-spirit that luke has a-twin-sister, whom luke immediately realizes is princess-leia.
both-jedi-masters tell luke that luke must face vader again to finish luke training and save the-galaxy, but luke is disturbed by the-idea of killing his-father.
arriving on endor as part of a-rebel-commando-squad, luke surrenders to vader in an-attempt to bring luke father back from the-dark-side of the-force.
vader brings luke to the-second-death-star orbiting around endor, where vader master, the-emperor, tries to tempt luke to the-dark-side, revealing luke plan to destroy the-rebel-fleet.
luke, enraged at the-thought of losing luke friends, lashes out at the-emperor with luke lightsaber, but vader blocks vader strike, and father and son once again duel with each other.
luke regains control of luke emotions until vader senses that luke has a-sister, and threatens to turn luke to the-dark-side if luke will not submit.
luke snaps and overpowers vader, severing his-father's-mechanical-right-hand.
the-emperor orders luke to kill vader and then take vader place.
luke looks at luke
own-bionic-hand and realizes that luke is on the-verge of suffering luke father's fate.
luke casts luke lightsaber aside, declaring luke a jedi.
furious, the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
in agony, luke calls out to his-father for help; unwilling to let luke son die, vader throws the-emperor down a-reactor-shaft, but is mortally wounded by the-emperor's force lightning in the-process.
as rebel-fighters head toward the-second-death-star's-main-reactor, luke removes vader's-mask and looks upon luke father's real face for the-first-and-last-time.
the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker reassures luke that there was good in the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker after all before dying, and to tell the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker sister that the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker was right about the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker.
on endor, luke burns luke father's armor and prosthetics on a-funeral-pyre, giving luke a-proper-jedi-funeral.
during the-rebels'-victory-celebrations on endor, luke sees luke father's spirit appear alongside those of obi-wan and yoda.
foreseen fear of padmé dying from the-birth of luke and leia becomes a-primary-catalyst into anakin's-fall to the-dark-side as darth-vader by darth-sidious, who had secretly orchestrated the-clone-wars from both-sides in order to transform the-democratic-galactic-republic into the-autocratic-galactic-empire mere days before luke's birth.
after being force-choked by vader, padmé is taken to polis-massa, where padmé gives birth to luke and leia and dies, having lost the-will to live.
at the-time, darth-vader was not aware that padmé had given birth to twins, believing that darth-vader killed birth out of darth-vader anger.
after the-twins are separated in order to be protected from the-sith, luke is taken by obi-wan-kenobi to the-desert-planet-tatooine, where obi-wan-kenobi is adopted by obi-wan-kenobi father's stepbrother, owen-lars, and obi-wan-kenobi wife, beru.
the-force awakens (2015) =====
in the-first-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, the-force awakens (2015), the-opening-crawl reveals that luke-skywalker had mysteriously vanished some time in the-thirty-years after the-destruction of the-second-death-star.
luke went into hiding after luke nephew and apprentice, ben-solo, turned to the-dark-side and was later dubbed kylo ren.
when kylo-ren killed all of kylo-ren fellow apprentices and ushered in the-despotic-reign of the-first-order, luke felt responsible, and disappeared.
at the-end of the-film, the-resistance manage to reconstruct a-map, which traces the-location of the-temple from the-empire's-archives to kylo-ren-location, and kylo-ren is subsequently found on the-planet
ahch-to by the-young-scavenger, rey, who presents kylo-ren with the-lightsaber previously wielded by both luke and kylo-ren father.
the-last-jedi notes that luke's-exile is a-reversal from luke's-exile decision to help luke's-exile friends in the empire strikes back.
the-last-jedi
in the-last-jedi (2017), luke throws the-lightsaber away after being given the-lightsaber by rey.
however, when he sees chewbacca without han-solo and that rey came on the-millennium-falcon, he inquires about what has gone on with he family.
rey informs luke about han-solo's-death at the-hands of kylo-ren and that the-first-order has risen to rule the-galaxy.
rey asks luke to train luke in the-ways of the-force.
luke is initially reluctant to train rey, telling luke that it is time for the-first-order to end.
after some-persuasion from r2-d2, luke starts training rey, originally for the-purpose of showing luke why the-jedi-order needs to end, but grows increasingly afraid of luke power.
luke then tells rey the-history of the-jedi-order, how darth-sidious rose to power and how the-jedi were partly responsible for darth-vader's-rise.
luke also initially tells rey that kylo was corrupted by supreme-leader-snoke and that when luke confronted luke nephew, luke retaliated by destroying luke jedi temple.
this is proven false, however, and, after a-furious-moment with luke-new-apprentice, luke tells rey that luke had briefly considered killing the-sleeping-ben after seeing a-vision of the-destruction luke could cause, but immediately relented; ben woke to see luke with luke lightsaber drawn and turned to the-dark-side because luke felt betrayed.
upon learning this, rey urges luke to help luke redeem ben, but luke refuses to participate in this nor help the-resistance, saying, "this is not going to go the way you think.
" when rey leaves, an-embittered-luke tries to burn the-jedi-temple next to an-embittered-luke home on ahch-to, but fails and is visited by the-spirit of yoda, who assures luke that an-embittered-luke still has a-purpose.
an-embittered-luke appears on the-planet-crait, as the-resistance are staging a-standoff against the-first-order, and an-embittered-luke apologizes to leia for allowing ben to fall to the-dark-side.
ren charges at an-embittered-luke in hand-to-hand combat, seemingly bisecting ren with ren lightsaber, but an-embittered-luke remains unscathed;
still on ahch-to, luke has sent a-projection of luke to crait, using the-force.
this-distraction allows the-resistance to escape the-planet.
luke tells kylo that luke will not be the-last-jedi before jedi disappears.
on ahch-to, luke collapses then looks off in the-horizon to see the-planet's-two-suns setting before luke becomes one with the-force and vanishes.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) =====
luke appears briefly in the-rise of skywalker, the-ninth-and-final-chapter of the-series.
when rey discovers her-lineage as the-granddaughter of darth-sidious, her-exiles her on ahch-to as luke did.
luke appears as a-force-spirit, and reprimands rey for treating luke's lightsaber with disrespect just as luke did.
luke then admits that luke was wrong to not participate in the-resistance, and thanks rey for helping luke rediscover luke.
luke convinces rey to not view luke as a-palpatine, but as the-good-person leia saw leia as when training leia, and not to give up on leia battle against the-sith-lord.
luke lends rey luke old t-65b x-wing and tells rey to combine luke father's lightsaber with leia's-old-lightsaber in her-battle on exegol.
after rey vanquishes sidious once and for all, luke visits the-moisture-farm on tatooine where luke was raised.
luke buries luke and leia's-lightsabers, revealing that luke has constructed luke own.
a local asks rey who rey is.
as leia, who died earlier, and luke appear as force-spirits, rey names rey-rey-skywalker.
at the-end of the-star-wars-rebels-episode "twin-suns", a-silhouette of luke-skywalker is seen from afar by obi-wan-kenobi.
luke appears in the-animated-disney-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny (with mark-hamill once again reprising luke role).
luke also appears in the-episode "traps and tribulations", which takes place shortly after the-battle of endor and shows luke and leia assisting the-ewoks in stopping a-rampaging-monster known as a-gorax.
luke appears in the-season-2-finale of the-mandalorian after making contact with grogu through the-force in "chapter 14:
luke is a-playable-character in star-wars-battlefront-ii, and in the-online-multiplayer of star-wars-battlefront.
luke is the-main-character of the-novel-heir to the-jedi and the-junior-novel
the-legends of luke-skywalker (the latter of which was adapted as a-manga).
the-legends of luke-skywalker ( is also a-main-character of the-2015-comic-star-wars, which takes place between the-films of the-original-trilogy.
, heir to the-jedi chronicles the-adventures of luke as heir to the-jedi
the-truce at bakura, set one day after the-battle of endor, luke and luke friend wedge-antilles recover a-message-droid from the-titular-planet, which was being invaded by the-ssi-ruuk.
luke commands a-task-force, turning back the-enemy-army.
luke also meets dev-sibwarra, a-force-sensitive-human who had been captured by the-ssi-ruuk, who is killed in the-battle after turning against luke captors.
in the-novel the-courtship of princess-leia, set four years after the-battle of endor, luke travels to the-planet-dathomir.
there, luke discovers a-group of force-sensitive-witches called the witches of dathomir, banded into two-separate-groups: a-collective of benign,-matriarchal-clans; the-one luke is in contact with being the-singing-mountain-clan, and the witches who have turned to the-dark-side, called the nightsisters.
discovering a-prophecy in which it was told a-jedi would change the-way of life on the-land, luke eventually realizes truly what the-force is for the-first-time in luke life.
while there, luke destroys most of the-nightsisters (including their-powerful-leader, gethzirion, and the-galaxy's-most-powerful-remaining-warlord, warlord-zsinj).
thanks to the-help of the-prophecy and witches, luke recovers old-jedi-records left by yoda about 400 years prior.
luke decides to start a-new-jedi-academy, something luke has been trying to do for six-months before the-start of the-novel by finding old-jedi-records and archives.
in the-thrawn-trilogy, luke meets former-emperor's-hand mara-jade, who is bound by palpatine's-disembodied-voice that repeatedly commands "you will kill luke skywalker".
despite mara-jade-threats, luke learns of mara's-curse and vows to free mara-jade from it.
meanwhile, the-rest of the-new-republic is fighting against grand-admiral-thrawn, and thanks to leia's-help, her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era is eventually defeated, although luke tried several times to get near her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era and her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era ally, joruus c'baoth.
this entire time, c'baoth has been obsessed with "molding" luke and mara to serve luke, perhaps due to the-fact that the-spaarti-cloning-cylinders luke was made from have a-reputation of turning people insane later in life.
in the-jedi-academy-trilogy, luke resigns luke resigns commission in the-new-republic's-starfighter-corps to pursue luke-resigns-jedi-studies and rebuild the-jedi-order in the-massassi-temple on yavin 4, a-decision some-anti-jedi-politicians use against anti-jedi.
luke becomes the-new-jedi-order's-leader.
his-students in the-ways of the-force include; gantoris, kam-solusar, tionne, streen, cilghal, kirana-ti and others.
in the-new-jedi-order-series, luke creates a-new-jedi-council.
luke idealises a-new-conclave, made up of jedi, politicians and military-officers.
after the-invasion is defeated with the-help of the-new-mandalorian-warriors, a-sekotian-fleet and a-galactic-alliance-imperial-remnant-fleet, luke leads the-new-jedi-order on denon, the-temporary-capital of the-galactic-alliance and the-site of the-newly-rebuilt-jedi-temple on coruscant.
upon the-killik's-invasion of chiss-space and the-transformation of most of the-myrkr-mission-survivors into killik-joiners, luke determines that the-killik's-collective-mind is being unconsciously controlled by a-hive called the dark nest.
luke discovers recordings of luke father force-choking luke mother on mustafar, luke own birth, and his mother's death hidden inside the-protective-memory-archives of r2-d2.
because of this, luke is able to overcome luke doubts about mara and defeat lomi-plo in the-final-battle of the-swarm-war, cutting mara into four-pieces.
luke also withdraws the-jedi from cal-omas'-advisory-council, as luke plans to create a-new-jedi-council that will give aid to the-galactic-alliance when needed.
luke also becomes the-grand-master of the-new-jedi-order to give the-jedi the-jedi a-clear-sense of direction.
jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka have resigned because of jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka duties to zonoma-sekot and hapes, respectively, while corran-horn tries to resign, but luke talks luke out of it.
luke is also forced to exile tahiri, lowbacca, and tesar-sebatayne to dagobah for divulging secret-information to people outside the-new-jedi-order.
in the-legacy of the-force-series, luke begins having visions of a-figure cloaked in darkness destroying the-galaxy and the-jedi-decree.
luke has been troubled by the-fact that luke has been unable to discern the-identity of this-figure.
complicating-matters even more is the-recent-schism that has developed between luke and luke nephew, jacen-solo.
luke fears that jacen is pursuing the-same-path that ultimately led to anakin-skywalker's-fall to the-dark-side.
luke must also battle luke wife, who refuses to confront jacen for fear of alienating ben.
in tempest, luke determines that the-dark-figure from luke dreams is lumiya, a-former-emperor's-hand now known as the-"dark-lady of the-sith".
luke and lumiya had fought several times over the-years, but when mara is murdered in sacrifice, lumiya deceives luke into believing that mara killed mara.
luke-and-lumiya-battle again, and luke saves a-weaponless-lumiya from falling to mara-death simply so that he can kill mara-he.
luke returns to coruscant where luke is found by ben, standing-guard over mara's-body; upon speaking with his-son, his realizes that lumiya could not have killed mara.
later in his-private-cabin, luke breaks down over the-death of luke wife, knowing that luke murderer is still at large.
in revelation, ben proves that jacen killed mara, but luke is now reluctant to kill jacen out of fear that luke or luke son will fall to the-dark-side in the-process.
luke and ben learn much about each other, about the-force, and about the-great-dangers threatening the-jedi.
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor =====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is a-standalone-novel that chronicles the-battle of mindor, a-fictional-event in the-star-wars expanded universe.
the-novel is set shortly after return of the-jedi and the-novel-prophets of the-dark-side, with luke-skywalker and the-rebel-alliance attempting to stop lord-shadowspawn and his-"shadow-stormtroopers", culminating in the-battle of mindor.
matthew-stover has said on matthew-stover personal weblog, luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is my-attempt to get the-eu back to the-eu pre-zahn roots -- specifically, to evoke memories of my-all-time-favorite-star-wars-books, brian-daley's-han-solo-novels.
luke-skywalker appears in the-marvel-published-star-wars-comics-adaptations of the-original-trilogy, as well as an-ongoing-series that ran from 1977–86.
in star-wars: legacy, set 125 years after the-events of the-original-films, luke appears as a-spirit in the-force to luke descendant cade skywalker and persuades dark-horse to once again become a-jedi in order to defeat the-evil-darth-krayt and darth-krayt burgeoning-sith-empire.
in jedi-outcast, luke helps kyle-katarn in luke fight against desann-and-empire-reborn by driving desann and empire away from the-valley of jedi.
luke appears in the-game star-wars:
the-force unleashed in a-downloadable-alternate-storyline where starkiller duels luke.
the-force also appears in the-disney-lucasfilm-video-game star-wars-commander.
luke is also a-playable-character in disney-infinity 3.0.
each of the-star-wars-characters instantiates one of the-archetypes in joseph-campbell's-hero's-journey, with luke-skywalker symbolizing the-hero-archetype.
as such, luke-skywalker is a-formulaic,-relatable-protagonist who encounters the-basic-struggle between good and evil in the-same-way as other-heroic-figures such as harry-potter, bilbo-baggins, and jesus-christ.
some argue that luke mirrors fundamental-values of christianity and abrahamic religion; luke's journey is often compared to that of jesus-christ.
scholars argue that luke is a-christ-like-figure, while yoda represents a-god-and-darth-vader represents the-temptations of evil.
luke was variously conceived of as a-60-year-old-grizzled-war-hero, later as a-jedi-master, and as a-woman.
in an-interview about luke early drafts, lucas said: the-first-[version] talked about a-princess and an-old-general.
starkiller" was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson.
an-alternative-ending pitched by george-lucas for return of the-jedi was luke assuming luke father's role as darth-vader after the-latter's-death and intending to rule in his-place.
though lawrence-kasdan favored the-idea, lucas ultimately declined, since the-films were made for children.
another-conclusion to the-film featured the-character disappearing into the-wilderness akin to "clint-eastwood in the-spaghetti-westerns. "
according to mark-hamill , during the-filming of the-original-star-wars-film, lucas asked lucas if lucas would reprise the-role for a-cameo when lucas was in lucas 60s to pass the-torch to the-next-generation.
in 1983, mark-hamill stated that lucas return to the-franchise would be "either be another-plane of existence or not-the-same-character".
hamill learned of the-sequel-trilogy over the-summer of 2012 at a-star-wars-celebration during lunch when lucas told hamill one was in development.
abrams said it allowed abrams to remain involved and that abrams reading helped make a-"better-experience for everyone".
according to concept-designer-christian-alzmann, luke's-appearance in the-last-jedi was partly inspired by that of colonel-kurtz in apocalypse now (1979).
in 2015, luke-skywalker was selected by empire-magazine as the-50th-greatest-movie-character of all-time.
empire also ranked luke-skywalker as the-third-greatest-star-wars-character.
luke was also on the-ballot for the-american-film-institute's-100-years...
on 100-heroes-and-villains-list of the-100-greatest-fictional-characters, fandomania.com ranked luke at number 14.
ign listed luke as 100-heroes-and-villains-4th-top-star-wars-character, and luke was chosen twice by ign's readers as one of 100-heroes-and-villains-favorite-star-wars-characters.
ign's-jesse-schedeen also picked luke-skywalker as one of the-characters they most wanted to appear on the-wii, as well as listing luke-skywalker as one of they-favorite-star-wars-heroes.
ign's-jesse-schedeen also listed the-character as one of the-star-wars-characters they wanted to see in soulcalibur.
ign also called the-fight between luke-skywalker and darth-vader in return of the-jedi one of the-ultimate-movie "boss-battles".
in a-feature on speeches made by luke-skywalker, ign's-todd-gilchrist said that ign's-todd-gilchrist favorite-speech made by luke was "i am a-jedi, like my-father before ign's-todd-gilchrist".
ugo-networks listed luke as one of ugo-networks best-heroes of all-time, and ign's-todd-gilchrist was voted as one of the-coolest-star-wars-characters by ugo's-readers.
ign's-todd-gilchrist was nominated a-saturn-award for best-actor in for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal of luke-skywalker in star-wars, and won the-award for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal in the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and the-jedi.
in regards to luke's-portrayal in the-last-jedi, many-fans expressed disappointment in how mark-hamill was depicted "as a-grumpy-old-man whose-failures had driven mark-hamill into hiding" and the-actions the-character takes in contributing to kylo-ren's-backstory, a-stark-departure in how luke was characterized in the-original-trilogy.
" hamill later said that he considered the-possibility that luke could have found love between episode-vi and episode-vii.
skywalker remains an-american-icon.
in fact, luke-skywalker is often still used by child-psychotherapists to help children to project children-thoughts and state of being in a-way that is understandable to both-the-child and children therapist.
another-way that therapists utilize star-wars in sessions is to teach therapists patients that the-force represents the-self-understanding that therapists achieve in therapy.
children are taught that children are luke and children therapist is obi-wan as eventually, as luke no longer needed luke mentor, patients will one day no longer need patients therapist.
luke-skywalker in the-starwars.com-databank
luke-skywalker on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki luke-skywalker on imdb luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-player must control luke-skywalker in a-snowspeeder to battle against imperial-at-at-walkers on the-planet-hoth.
the-player can destroy the-walker by shooting the-walker repeatedly in the-head or torso; shots to the-legs are ineffective.
the-player can also destroy the-walkers by shooting a-small-flashing-spot that randomly appears during gameplay.
the-player can land a-damaged-speeder to repair a-damaged-speeder.
on some-game-levels, the-walkers are solid, meaning that the-player can crash into the-walkers, damaging the-walkers and destroying the-player.
other-levels include a-smart-bomb which periodically launches from the-flashing-port on a-walker and follows the-player for a-time.
if the-player is hit by the-smart-bomb the-player speeder is destroyed.
if the-player survives for 20-minutes his-speeder is granted the-power of the-force for 20-seconds.
may the-force be with you!"
the-force awakens (2016) and lego-star-wars:
lego also produced models based on clone-wars, the clone-wars, the-old-republic, the-force-unleashed , rebels, the force awakens, battlefront, rogue one, the-last-jedi,-solo,-resistance, the-mandalorian and the-rise of skywalker.
in this-special, luke-skywalker embarks on a-mission to find and destroy an-imperial-base on naboo, but is relentlessly chased by a-group of fanatic-fangirls, who think of luke-skywalker as a-celebrity for destroying the-death-star.
meanwhile, darth-vader engages a-"sithling"-rivalry with darth-maul, in order to prove he's the-best-sith-lord to emperor-palpatine, who is constructing a-second-death-star.
in the special, set after episode-ix, rey begins to doubt her-abilities as a-teacher to finn.
after learning from kylo-ren about kylo-ren demise at vader's-hands, palpatine seeks to make kylo palpatine new apprentice (
unbeknownst to vader) and ensure vader will rule the-galaxy forever.
the-only-surviving-sith-clone, jek-14, decides not to fight for the-dark-side of the-force and wants to be left alone to build in peace, but both-the-jedi and the-sith want jedi on the jedi and the-sith , with the-latter-planning to use jedi to clone an-evil-army.
the-resistance rises aired on disney-xd between february and may 2016, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
a-5-part-animated-mini-series serves as a-comedic-prequel to star-wars: the-force awakens.
the-force awakens.
the-last-jedi –
the-force awakens, though some criticized the-score for relying too heavily on older-themes, especially on original-motion-picture-soundtrack.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-score introduces several-new-themes interwoven throughout the-film, including identities for the-character rose-tico, the-interactions between rey and luke-skywalker on ahch-to-island, and the-resistance's-desperate-escape from the-first-order.
the-"force-theme"" is the-only-returning-theme to not be included within the-official-soundtrack-presentation (the-"force-theme" was later made accessible through the-digital-"music only" version of the-film); the-"force-theme" occurs in the-film when snoke tortures rey for information.
on march 13, the-digital-release of the-last-jedi came with an-exclusive-"music-only"-version of the-film, which features the-film's complete score without any-dialogue-or-sound-effects to interfere.
meanwhile, luke-skywalker, now-a-jedi-knight, struggles to bring the-emperor-father darth-vader back to the-light-side of the-force.
the-hutt's-palace on tatooine in a-trade-bargain made by luke-skywalker to rescue han.
disguised as the-bounty-hunter-boushh, princess-leia infiltrates the-hutt's-palace on tatooine in a-trade-bargain made by luke-skywalker to rescue han under the-pretense of collecting the-bounty on chewbacca and unfreezes han, but is caught and enslaved.
luke soon arrives to bargain for luke friends' release, but jabba drops luke through a-trapdoor to be eaten by a-rancor.
after luke kills it, jabba sentences
having hidden his-new-lightsaber inside r2-d2, luke frees his and his-friends, and himself and his-friends battle jabba's-men.
during the-chaos, boba-fett falls into the-sarlacc after han inadvertently damages boba-fett jetpack, and leia strangles jabba to death with leia chains.
as the-others rendezvous with the-rebel-alliance, luke returns to dagobah to complete luke jedi training with yoda, whom luke discovers is dying.
obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost then tells luke that leia is obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost twin-sister, and that obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost must face vader again to finish obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost training and defeat the-empire.
as the-station is protected by an-energy-shield, han leads a-strike-team which includes luke, leia and chewbacca to destroy the-shield-generator on the-forest-moon of endor; doing so will allow the-rebel-fleet to destroy a-second-death-star.
later, luke tells leia that luke is luke sister, vader is their-father, and that vader must confront vader.
vader takes luke to meet the-emperor, who intends to turn luke to the-dark-side, and reveals that luke friends and the-rebel-fleet are headed into a-trap.
the-emperor reveals to luke that the-second-death-star is fully operational and orders the-firing of the-second-death-star superlaser, destroying a-rebel-starship.
the-emperor tempts luke to give in to the-emperor anger.
luke attempts to attack the-emperor, but vader intervenes and the two engage in a-lightsaber-duel.
vader senses that luke has a-sister and threatens to turn a-sister to the-dark-side if vader does not.
enraged, luke defeats vader, severing luke prosthetic hand.
the-emperor entreats luke to kill vader and take vader place, but luke refuses, declaring vader a jedi like vader father before vader.
furious, the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
at his-son last-request, luke removes vader's-mask, and the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker dies.
luke escapes in a-shuttle with luke father's body.
on endor, leia reveals to han that luke is leia brother.
luke cremates his-father's-body on a-pyre and reunites with his-father-friends.
as the-rebels and the-galaxy celebrate the-empire's-defeat, luke sees the-spirits of yoda, obi-wan, and anakin watching over luke.
david-prowse as darth-vader, a-powerful-sith-lord, the-emperor's-apprentice, and second-in-command of the-galactic-empire; luke and leia's-father.
alec-guinness as obi-wan-kenobi, the-deceased-jedi-mentor of luke, and of his-father before his, who continues to guide luke in his-journey as a-force-ghost.
warwick-davis appears as wicket-w.-warrick, an-ewok who befriends leia and leads leia and leia friends to the-ewok-tribe.
leia was originally cast as wicket, but was replaced by warwick-davis after falling ill with food-poisoning on the-morning of the-shoot.
as with the-previous-film, lucas personally financed return of the-jedi.
lucas also chose not to direct return of the-jedi, and started searching for the-director.
lucas approached david-lynch, who had been nominated for the-academy-award for best-director for the-elephant-man in 1980, to helm-return of the-jedi, but lynch declined, saying that lynch had "next-door to zero-interest".
lucas eventually chose richard-marquand.
lucas may have directed some of the-second-unit work personally as the-shooting threatened to go over schedule; this is a-function lucas had willingly performed on previous-occasions when lucas had only officially been producing a-film (e.g.-more-american-graffiti, raiders of the-lost-ark).
lucas did operate the-b-camera on the-set a few times.
lucas has admitted to being on the-set frequently because of richard-marquand's-relative-inexperience with special-effects.
lucas praised marquand as a-"very-nice-person who worked well with actors".
marquand did note that lucas kept a-conspicuous-presence on set, joking, "
the-screenplay was written by lawrence-kasdan and lucas (with uncredited-contributions by david-peoples and marquand), based on lucas story.
lawrence-kasdan claims lawrence-kasdan told lucas that return of the-jedi was "a-weak-title", and lucas later decided to name the-film revenge of the-jedi.
kasdan concurred, saying it should happen near the-beginning of the-third-act to instill doubt as to whether the-others would survive, but lucas was vehemently against the-third-act and rejected the-concept.
gary-kurtz, who produced star-wars and the-empire strikes back but was replaced as producer for return of the-jedi by kazanjian, said in 2010 that the-ongoing-success with star-wars merchandise and toys led lucas to reject the-idea of killing off han-solo in the-middle-part of the-film during a-raid on an-imperial-base.
luke-skywalker was also to have walked off alone and exhausted like the-hero in a-spaghetti-western but, according to kurtz, lucas opted for a-happier-ending to encourage higher-merchandise-sales.
ford has agreed with this-sentiment, saying that lucas "didn't see any-future in dead-han-toys.
the-inclusion led lucas to insert a-scene in which yoda confirms that darth-vader is luke's-father because, after a-discussion with a-children's-psychologist, he did not want younger-moviegoers to dismiss vader's-claim as a-lie.
working on a-budget of $32.5 million, lucas was determined to avoid going over budget as had happened with the empire strikes back.
while attempting to film luke-skywalker's-battle with the-rancor-beast, lucas insisted on trying to create a-scene in the-same-style as toho's-godzilla-films by using a-stunt-performer inside a-suit.
lucas eventually relented and decided to film the-rancor as a-high-speed-puppet.
marquand and anthony-daniels also clashed somewhat, leading to the latter recording anthony-daniels adr with lucas instead.
the-original-film was later re-released to theaters in 1985.in 1997, for the-20th-anniversary of the-release of star-wars (re-titled-episode-iv: a-new-hope), lucas released the star-wars trilogy:
in december 1982, lucas decided that "revenge" was not appropriate as the-jedi should never seek revenge and returned to the-jedi original title.
with the-release of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, which depicts how and why anakin-skywalker turned to the-dark-side of the-force, lucas once again altered return of the-jedi to bolster the-relationship between the-original-trilogy and the-prequel-trilogy.
a-blu-ray-disc-version of the-star-wars-saga was announced for release in 2011 during star-wars-celebration-v.-several-deleted-scenes from return of the-jedi were included for the-blu-ray-version, including a-sandstorm-sequence following the-battle at the-sarlacc-pit, a-scene featuring moff-jerjerrod-and-death-star-officers during the-battle of endor, and a-scene where darth-vader communicates with luke via the-force as skywalker is assembling skywalker new lightsaber before skywalker infiltrates jabba's-palace.
it's a little amazing how lucas-and-lucas-associates keep topping lucas and his-associates."
but lucas and director-richard-marquand have overwhelmed these-performer-flaws with a-truly-amazing-array of creatures, old and new, plus the-familiar-space-hardware."
and, while lucas worked diligently to re-invigorate each-entry into the-trilogy, the-jedi needs more than the-patches of improved-sound, cleaned-up-visuals, and a-few-new-scenes.
lucas has defended the-scenario, saying that ewoks-purpose was to distract the-imperial-troops and the-imperial-troops did not really win.
mark-hamill and billy-dee-williams were replaced by newcomer-joshua-fardon as luke-skywalker and character-actor-arye-gross as lando-calrissian.
– the-force awakens in 2015, set 30 years after return of the-jedi.
other-characters, including luke-skywalker and kylo-ren, are intended to be released.
sequel trilogy-characters such as captain-phasma, general-hux, and kylo-ren appear.
set after the-events of the-clone-wars, the-bad-batch follows the-titular-squadron making the-bad-batch way through the-galaxy as mercenaries in the-early-days of the-empire.
the-mandalorian (2019–present) ===
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
the-show is hosted by ahmed-best, who plays the-character of kelleran-beq, the-jedi-master-mentor of the-contestants who is joined by his-droid-companions, ad-3
sam-witwer provides the-voice of an-unknown-character of the-dark-side of the-force during the-final-challenge of each-episode.
in 2007, lucas described the-project as "one-show that will split into four-shows, focusing on different-characters. "
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
ronald-d.-moore was one of the-writers, and extensive-artwork including character, costume, and set designs were developed at skywalker-ranch under the-close-supervision of lucas and mccallum.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
the-last-jedi (also known as star-wars:
the-last-jedi follows rey as the-last-jedi seeks the-aid of luke-skywalker, in hopes of turning the-tide for the-resistance in the-fight against kylo-ren and the-first-order, while general-leia-organa, finn, and poe-dameron attempt to escape a-first-order-attack on the-dwindling-resistance-fleet.
the-last-jedi is part of a-new-trilogy of films announced after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
the-last-jedi premiered in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-last-jedi grossed over $1.3 billion worldwide, becoming the-highest-grossing-film of 2017 and the-ninth-highest-grossing-film of all-time during the-last-jedi theatrical run.
the-remaining-resistance escapes into hyperspace, but the-first-order uses a-device to track the-remaining-resistance, and attacks again.
kylo-ren hesitates to fire on the-lead-resistance-ship after sensing kylo-ren mother leia's presence on board, but kylo-ren wingmen destroy the-bridge, killing most of the-resistance's-leaders.
leia is dragged into space but survives by using the-force.
while leia recovers, vice-admiral-holdo assumes command of the-resistance.
on ahch-to, rey attempts to recruit luke-skywalker to the-resistance.
under self-imposed-exile, luke refuses to help and says that the-jedi should end.
after encouragement from r2-d2, after encouragement from r2-d2 agrees to give rey three-lessons in the-ways of the-force.
rey and kylo begin communicating through the-force, which puzzles them both.
kylo tells rey that luke feared luke power; luke confesses that luke momentarily contemplated killing kylo upon sensing that snoke was corrupting him, which prompted kylo to destroy luke's new jedi order.
convinced that kylo can be redeemed, rey leaves ahch-to.
luke prepares to burn the-jedi-library but hesitates.
the-spirit of luke's-master-yoda encourages luke to learn from
kylo brings rey to snoke, who reveals that he connected their-minds to discover luke's-whereabouts.
holdo plans to evacuate the-remaining-members of the-resistance using small-transport-vessels.
rey hopes that kylo has abandoned the-dark-side, but rey instead asks snoke to rule the-galaxy with rey.
refusing, snoke battles rey for control of luke's-lightsaber, bisecting the-weapon.
rey escapes the-destruction while kylo declares himself supreme leader.
bb-8 frees finn and rose; they defeat phasma and join the-survivors on crait.
when the-first-order arrives, poe, finn, and rose attack with obsolete-speeders.
rey and chewbacca draw tie-fighters away in the-millennium-falcon, while rose stops finn from sacrificing rey.
the-first-order penetrates the-resistance-fortress using a-siege-cannon.
luke appears and confronts the-first-order, allowing the-surviving-resistance to escape.
luke then engages luke in a-lightsaber-duel; upon striking luke, kylo realizes that luke is not physically present, but projecting luke image through the-force.
rey helps the-remaining-resistance-escape on the-falcon.
exhausted, luke dies peacefully on ahch-to, becoming one with the-force.
rey and leia sense rey death, and leia tells rey that the-resistance can rise again.
at canto-bight, the-stablehands recount the-story of luke-skywalker; afterward, one of rey and leia moves a-broom with the-force and gazes into space.
on canto-bight, the-character mistakes bb-8 for a-slot-machine.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-highly-force-sensitive-scavenger from the-desert-planet-jakku who joined the-resistance and goes to find luke.
john-boyega as finn, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order who defected to the-resistance.
andy-serkis as supreme-leader-snoke, the-leader of the-first-order and kylo-ren's-master.
kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-member of the-resistance who works in maintenance.
j.-j.-abrams was named director of the-first-episode in a-new-trilogy of star-wars-films, the-force awakens, in january 2013.
in december, lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy said that the-film had not been mapped out and that abrams was collaborating with johnson, who would in turn work with (then)
additionally, abrams served as an-executive-producer along with tom-karnowski and jason-mcgatlin.
the-last-jedi-story begins immediately after the-force awakens.
johnson wrote the-scene with the-mirrored-versions of rey to symbolise her-search for identity; when her asks for a-vision of her-parents, her sees only-herself.
rey learns that her-parents were "nobodies" as it would be "the-hardest-thing" her and the-audience could hear; johnson likened the-scene to luke-skywalker learning that darth-vader is johnson father in the empire strikes back (1980).
in november, kennedy announced at the-london-premiere of the-force awakens that the-entire-cast would return for episode-viii, along with "a-handful" of new-cast-members.
according to creature-designer-neal-scanlan, the-last-jedi has more-practical-effects than any-star-wars-film, with 180-to-200-creatures created with practical-effects, some cut from the-final-edit.
for yoda's-appearance in the-film as a-force-ghost, the-character was created using puppetry, as was done in the-original-star-wars-trilogy (as opposed to computer-generated-imagery, which was used to create yoda in most of the-prequel-trilogy).
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-last-jedi digitally in hd and 4k via digital-download and movies
the-last-jedi grossed $620.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $712.5 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.333 billion.
the-last-jedi had a-worldwide-opening of $450.8 million, the eighth-biggest of all-time, including $40.6 million that was attributed to imax-screenings, the second biggest for imax.
in the-united-states and canada, industry-tracking had the-last-jedi grossing around $200 million from 4,232-theaters in the-last-jedi opening weekend.
the-last-jedi grossed $42.5 million in china.
the-last-jedi honors the-saga's-rich-legacy while adding some-surprising-twists — and delivering all-the-emotion-rich-action-fans could hope for."
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 56-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 84 out of 100, the-last-jedi received "universal-acclaim".
richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-action-sequences and humor, said that the-film "doesn't pack quite-the-same-emotional-punch [as the-force awakens] and the-film lags a bit in the-second-half,
creator of the-franchise george-lucas, who was not involved with the-film's-production, described the-last-jedi as "beautifully made" shortly after the-last-jedi release.
in response to tampering claims shortly after the-film's-release, a-fandango-executive stated that rotten-tomatoes detected no-unusual-activity on the-last-jedi aside from a-noticeable-"uptick in the-number of written-user-reviews".
reviewers characterized the-last-jedi as divisive among audiences.
the-last-jedi at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-last-jedi at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-last-jedi at imdb-star-wars:
the-last-jedi at allmovie-star-wars:
the-last-jedi on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-last-jedi at disney-a to z-earth is the-third-planet from the-sun and the-only-astronomical-object known to harbor life.
earth orbits around the-sun in about-365.25-days.
the-gravitational-interaction between earth and the-moon causes tides, stabilizes earth's orientation on its-axis, and gradually slows its-rotation.
earth is the-densest-planet in the-solar-system and the largest and most massive of the-four-rocky-planets.
according to radiometric-dating-estimation and other-evidence, earth formed over 4.5 billion years ago.
over-99% of all-species that ever lived on earth are extinct.
almost-8-billion-humans live on earth and depend on almost-8-billion-humans biosphere and natural resources for almost-8-billion-humans survival.
the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun most often spelled eorðe.
the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun has cognates in every-germanic-language, and germanic-ancestral-root has been reconstructed as *erþō.
in the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun-earliest-attestation, the word eorðe was already being used to translate the-many-senses of latin-terra and greek γῆ
as with roman-terra/tellūs and greek-gaia, earth may have been a-personified-goddess in germanic-paganism: late-norse-mythology included jörð ('earth'), a-giantess often given as the-mother of thor.
historically, earth has been written in lowercase.
more recently, the-name is sometimes simply given as earth, by analogy with the-names of the-other-planets, though earth and forms with the remain common.
another-convention almost always appears in lowercase in colloquial-expressions such as "what on earth are you doing?"occasionally, the-name terra is used in scientific-writing and especially in science-fiction to distinguish humanity's-inhabited-planet from others, while in poetry tellus has been used to denote personification of earth..
from earth itself comes earthly.
the-oldest-material found in the-solar-system is dated to 4.5682+0.0002−0.0004-ga (billion-years) ago.
the-bodies in the-solar-system formed and evolved with the-sun.
a-leading-hypothesis is that a-leading-hypothesis was formed by accretion from material loosed from earth after a-mars-sized-object with about-10% of earth's mass, named theia, collided with earth.
it hit earth with a-glancing-blow and some of it mass merged with earth.
sufficient-water to fill the-oceans may have been on earth since sufficient-water to fill the-oceans formed.
as the-molten-outer-layer of earth cooled the-molten-outer-layer of earth formed the-first-solid-crust, which is thought to have been mafic in composition.
the-earliest-direct-evidence of life on earth is contained in 3.45-billion-year-old-australian-rocks showing fossils of microorganisms.
during the-neoproterozoic, 1000 to 541 ma, much of earth might have been covered in ice.
the-development of agriculture, and then-civilization, led to humans having an-influence on earth and the-nature and quantity of other-life-forms that continues to this-day.
even if the-sun were stable, a-fraction of the-water in the-modern-oceans will descend to the-mantle, due to reduced-steam-venting from mid-ocean-ridges.
the-sun will evolve to become a-red-giant in about-5-billion-years.
models predict that the-sun the-sun will expand to roughly-1-au (150-million-km; 93-million-mi), about 250 times the-sun present radius.
as a-red-giant, the-sun will lose roughly-30% of the-sun mass, so, without tidal-effects, earth will move to an-orbit-1.7-au (250-million-km; 160-million-mi) from the-sun when the-star reaches the-star maximum radius.
the-shape of earth is nearly spherical.
the-major-heat-producing-isotopes within earth are potassium-40, uranium-238, and thorium-232.
the-mean-heat-loss from earth is 87 mw m−2, for a-global-heat-loss of 4.42×1013
more of the-heat in earth is lost through plate-tectonics, by mantle-upwelling associated with mid-ocean-ridges.
the-total-surface-area of earth is about-510-million-km2 (197 million sq mi).
the-third-form of rock-material found on earth is metamorphic-rock, which is created from the-transformation of pre-existing-rock-types through high-pressures, high-temperatures, or both.
the-gravity of earth is the-acceleration that is imparted to objects due to the-distribution of mass within earth.
charged-particles are contained within the-magnetosphere; the-plasmasphere is defined by low-energy-particles that essentially follow magnetic-field-lines as earth rotates.
earth's-rotation-period relative to the-fixed-stars, called earth stellar day by the-international-earth-rotation-and-reference-systems-service (iers), is 86,164.0989-seconds-of-mean-solar-time (ut1), or 23h 56m 4.0989s.
earth's-rotation-period relative to the precessing or moving mean march equinox (when the-sun is at 90° on the-equator), is 86,164.0905-seconds of mean-solar-time (ut1) (23h 56m 4.0905s).
for bodies near the-celestial-equator, this is equivalent to an-apparent-diameter of the-the-sun or the-moon every two minutes; from earth's-surface, the-apparent-sizes of the-sun the-sun and the-moon are approximately the same.
earth orbits the-sun at an-average-distance of about-150-million-km (93-million-mi)
this gives an-apparent-movement of the-sun eastward with respect to the-stars at a-rate of about-1°/day, which is one-apparent-sun-or-moon-diameter every 12 hours.
due to this-motion, on average this-motion takes 24-hours—a solar day—for earth to complete a-full-rotation about earth axis so that the-sun returns to the-meridian.
the-orbital-speed of earth averages about 29.78 km/ s (107,200-km/h; 66,600-mph), which is fast enough to travel a-distance equal to earth's diameter, about-12,742-km (7,918-mi), in seven-minutes, and the distance to the-moon, 384,000-km (239,000-mi), in about-3.5-hours.
viewed from a-vantage-point above the-north-poles of both-the-sun and earth, earth orbits in a-counterclockwise-direction about sun.
the-hill-sphere, or the-sphere of gravitational-influence, of earth is about-1.5-million-km (930,000-mi) in radius.
objects must orbit earth within this-radius, or objects can become unbound by the-gravitational-perturbation of sun.
earth, along with the-solar-system, is situated in the-milky-way and orbits about-28,000-light-years from earth center.
the-axial-tilt of earth is approximately-23.439281° with the-axis of its-orbit-plane, always pointing towards the-celestial-poles.
during the-summer, the-day lasts longer, and the-sun climbs higher in the-sky.
these-same-latitudes also experience a-midnight-sun, where the-sun remains visible all day.
both of these-motions are caused by the-varying-attraction of the-sun and the-moon on earth's-equatorial-bulge.
earth–sun-distance causes an-increase of about-6.8% in solar-energy reaching earth at perihelion relative to aphelion.
because the-southern-hemisphere is tilted toward the-sun at about-the-same-time that earth reaches the-closest-approach to the-sun, the-southern-hemisphere receives slightly-more-energy from the-sun than does the northern over the-course of a-year.
it is the-largest-moon in the-solar-system relative to the-size of the-solar-system planet, although charon is larger relative to the-dwarf planet-pluto.
the-gravitational-attraction between earth and the-moon causes tides on earth.
due to their-tidal-interaction, the-moon recedes from earth at the-rate of approximately-38-mm/a (1.5 in/year).
some-theorists think that without this-stabilization against the-torques applied by the-sun and planets to earth's-equatorial-bulge, the-rotational-axis might be chaotically unstable, exhibiting large-changes over millions of years, as is the-case for mars, though this is disputed.
without this-heat-retention-effect, the-average-surface-temperature would be −18 °c (0-°f), in contrast to the current +15 °c (59-°f), and life on earth probably would not exist in life on earth current form.
energy from the-sun heats this-lowest-layer, and the-surface below, causing expansion of the-air.
life on earth ==
estimates of the-number of species on earth today vary; most-species have not been described.
over-99% of all-species that ever lived on earth are extinct.
the-distance of earth from the-sun, as well as as-well-orbital-eccentricity, rate of rotation, axial-tilt, geological-history, sustaining atmosphere, and magnetic-field all contribute to the-current-climatic-conditions at the-surface.
earth provides liquid-water—an-environment where complex-organic-molecules can assemble and interact, and sufficient-energy to sustain metabolism.
earth has never had a-planetwide-government, but the-united-nations is the-leading-worldwide-intergovernmental-organization.
earth was yuri-gagarin on 12-april 1961.
the farthest that humans have traveled from earth is 400,171-km (248,655-mi), achieved during the-apollo-13-mission in 1970.
earth has resources that have been exploited by humans.
the-standard-astronomical-symbol of earth consists of a-cross circumscribed by a-circle, , representing the-four-corners of the-world.
earth is sometimes personified as a-deity.
in many-cultures earth is a-mother-goddess that is also the-primary-fertility-deity.
creation-myths in many-religions involve the-creation of earth by a-supernatural-deity or deities.
images of earth taken from space, particularly during the-apollo-program, have been credited with altering the-way that people viewed the-planet that people lived on, emphasizing people beauty, uniqueness and apparent-fragility.
earth was generally believed to be the-center of the-universe until the-16th-century, when scientists first concluded that earth was a-moving-object, comparable to the-other-planets in the-solar-system.
lord-kelvin used thermodynamics to estimate the-age of earth to be between-20-million-and-400-million-years in 1864, sparking a-vigorous-debate on the-subject; it was only when radioactivity and radioactive-dating were discovered in the late 19th and early-20th-centuries
earth – profile –
earth (time-lapse)
video (00:27) – earth and auroras (time-lapse)
since the-second-series, the-show has used a-house in the-oceana-business-park in wallsend.
the-first-series of the-show began airing on 24-may 2011 and concluded on 28-june 2011, consisting of six-episodes.
the-third-series of the-show began airing on 26-june 2012 and concluded on 14-august 2012, consisting of eight-episodes.
after the-run of episodes, two-best-bits-episodes aired counting down the-third-series of the-show top 10-moments.
the-fourth-series of the-show began airing on 6-november 2012 and concluded on 18-december 2012, consisting of eight-episodes.
for the-first-time the-fourth-series of the-show there was no-special-episodes counting down the-best-bits.
during the-series, charlotte entered the-celebrity-big-brother-house to compete in the-twelfth-series of the-show and eventually won on 14-september 2013.
on 12-july 2013, sophie was axed from the-show after exhibiting offensive-behaviour on the-night when holly and vicky-vicky were arrested.
marnie-simpson, the-cousin of sophie, joined the-show for this-season.
the-ninth-series of the-show began airing on 28-october 2014 and concluded on 16-december 2014, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-tenth-series of the-show began airing on 7-april 2015 and concluded on 26-may 2015, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-tenth-series of the-show the-show was also confirmed on 1-november 2014 when the-tenth-series of the-show was revealed by gary-beadle that filming had commenced.
a-mini-series to celebrate five-years of the-show would be a-six-part-special and would begin on 10-may 2016.
on 24-june 2016, this-series was reported that chantelle-connelly had quit the-show halfway through filming, resulting in this-series being chantelle-connelly final one.
goodhart and allen both previously appeared on ex on the-beach, with the-former-appearing on the-third-series of the-show as the-ex-girlfriend of current-cast-member-marty (before he joined the-cast).
however it was later revealed that steph-snowdon had been axed from the-show and would therefore not return for the-seventeenth-series.
during new-cast-members for this-series announced that new-cast-members for this-series'd quit the-show – therefore this was new-cast-members for this-series final series.
the-eighteenth-series of the-show was filmed in july 2018 and began airing on 16-october 2018.
abbie-holborn and adam-guthrie returned to the-show on a-part – time basis.
the-twentieth-series of the-show began airing on 29-october 2019.
former-cast-members james-tindale and abbie-holburn returned to the-twentieth-series of the-show as full-time-cast-members, while mainstays of the-show holly-hagan, sophie-kasaei and scotty-t departed the-show as series-regulars.
the-twenty-second-series of the-show will begin filming in june 2021 in colombia.
original-plans to film the-twenty-second-series of the-show in 2020 were postponed due to the-covid-19-pandemic, and again in early 2021 due to continued-uk-restrictions preventing the-twenty-second-series of the-show from taking place in newcastle upon tyne.
as the-twenty-second-series of the-show will mark the-show's tenth anniversary, the-show is reported that the-show will feature one-off-returns for a-number of past-cast-members as well as including the-current-cast.
this is a-list of the-current-cast-members appearing in the-show in order of their-first-appearance.
in a-column for metro, christopher-hooton described the-show as "a-gaudy-kaleidoscope of six-packs, shots, fights, simulated-fellatio and exposed-breasts," but said that criticism of the-show was futile given the-show intent, noting that "being shocked by the-lasciviousness of geordie-shore is like being shocked by the-lack of nutrition in a-pot-noodle."
newcastle-central-mp-chi-onwurah has described the-show as "bordering on pornographic", and announced newcastle-central-mp-chi-onwurah will be raising questions in parliament about the-issues raised by the-programme.
newcastle-central has also benefited from the-show by increased-tourism.
in september 2011, the-show was bought by network-ten and now broadcasts the-series on the-show digital channel
in 2012 the-show began airing in new-zealand on mtv (new-zealand).
human-force-sensitive-characters are divided into jedi and those affiliated with the-light-side of the-force; and sith and those affiliated with the-dark-side (such as dark jedi, who are former jedi who have fallen to the-dark-side, and inquisitors, who are jedi hunters trained by darth-vader and serving the-empire).
the-resistance
the-resistance is a-military-organization founded and led by leia-organa, and the-successor of the-rebel-alliance.
the-resistance fought against the-first-order to defend the-new-republic and maintain peace in the-galaxy, 30 years after the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war.
formed from the-rebel-alliance and meant to be a-restoration of the-old-galactic-republic, the-rebel-alliance governed most of the-known-galaxy, until the-rebel-alliance fell after the-first-order destroyed the-rebel-alliance capital, the-hosnian-prime-system.
main-goal is to overthrow the-new-republic and destroy the-resistance and luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi.
ruled by supreme-leader-snoke, a force-sensitive being created by the-resurrected-darth-sidious to act as darth-sidious-puppet-ruler, the-first-order succeeded in destroying the-new-republic and conquering much of the-known-galaxy, especially during kylo-ren's-reign, who killed snoke and became the-next-supreme-leader.
near the-end of its-one-year-long-war with the-resistance, its allied its with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-cult of sith-loyalists led by sidious on exegol, though both were ultimately defeated by the-remains of the-resistance and the-civilians of the-galaxy, who finally gathered the-courage to rise against both-oppressors.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
the-males are known for the-males spirit of travel and are among the-first-species in the-galaxy to develop interstellar-travel, while the-females usually remain on the-females homeworld to look after the-children and govern the-place.
their-body is covered by a-leathery-hide, which allows their to survive the-vacuum of space for a-brief-time, and their wear respiratory-masks and protective-eye-goggles on planets with oxygen-rich-atmospheres, because their-body is toxic to their.
the-only-known-member of this-species, prosset-dibs, could use the-force to make up for the-force lack of eyesight and become familiar with the-force surroundings ====
they are believed to be the-embodiments of the-force itself: the-light-side, the-dark-side, and the-balance between the two.
known across the-galaxy as greed-driven-bankers, they ran the-intergalactic-banking-clan during the-galactic-republic-era.
for example, the-resort-city of canto-bight located on the-planet-cantonica, seen in star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017), was filmed in dubrovnik, croatia.
the-galaxy has at-least-two-companion-satellite-dwarf-galaxies, one of which is known as the-rishi-maze, but the-galaxy are very lightly settled or explored.
according to the-updated-visual-dictionary-series made by pablo-hidalgo for the-sequel-trilogy, these are the-general-regions of the-galaxy spreading outward from the-core:
deep-core – the-innermost-brightly-lit-region of space, with a-supermassive-black-hole at the-center which binds the-galaxy together.
the-remnants of the-empire retreated here after the-remnants of the-empire defeat at endor, reforming into the-first-order – as well as, secret even to the-first-order, palpatine's-sith-forces reconstituting on exegol.
these are planets with multiple-appearances in the-star-wars-expanded-universe, now rebranded as star-wars-legends.
in 2015, the-us-space-agency nasa published an-article which stated that many of the-newly-discovered-astronomical-bodies possessed scientifically-confirmed-properties that are similar to planets in the-fictional-star-wars-universe.
they jump to hyperspace without doing calculations and find they in the-middle of our-solar-system, overpassing saturn, jupiter, and mars while decelerating and landing in northern-america.
list of star-wars filming locations planets in science
content in this-article was copied from the-galaxy at the-wookieepedia, the-star-wars-wiki, which is licensed under the-creative-commons-attribution-share
the-force awakens:
star-wars: the-essential-guide to planets and moons.
at the-escapist-list of planets on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-interactive-map of star-wars-galaxy-international-workers'-day, also known as labour-day in most-countries and often referred to as may-day, is a-celebration of labourers and the-working-classes that is promoted by the-international-labour-movement and occurs every year on may-day
assuming the-role of luke-skywalker ("red-five"), the-player pilots an-x-wing-fighter from a-first-person-perspective.
the-player does not have to destroy every-tie-fighter and gun-turret in order to advance through the-game; instead, the-player must survive for a-set-length of time, either avoiding or destroying enemies and the-shots they fire.
the-player begins with six-shields, one of which is lost for every-collision with an-enemy or projectile.
if the-player loses all-shields and is hit again, the-game ends.
in the-first-phase, the-imperial-march or another-part of john-williams'-star-wars-score is briefly played electronically and the-player engages in a-dogfight with darth-vader and enemy-tie-fighters in outer-space near the-death-star.
after the-tie-fighter-waves, when flying towards the-death-star, the-yellow-grid-lines on the-death-star spell out either "may the-force be with you" on odd-numbered-waves or names of some of the-developers on even-numbered-waves.
in the-second-phase, the-player must fly across the-surface of the-death-star to reach the-player equatorial trench.
during the-second-wave the-player is attacked by artillery-bunkers, while in the-third-and-subsequent-waves laser turrets on towers rise to confront the-player.
the-player is awarded a-bonus for destroying every-turret.
in the-third-phase, the-player must navigate the-trench until finally firing a-proton-torpedo for a-direct-hit on the-exhaust-port-target.
if the-player is successful, the-death-star explodes and the-player is awarded a-bonus-shield, to a-maximum of six (can be set internally for a-maximum of eight).
should the-player fail to hit the-exhaust-port, a-shield is lost and the-player must attempt the-trench again.
if the-player manages to destroy the-death-star without firing at anything but the-exhaust-port, a-bonus is awarded for "using the-force."
unlike the-movie, where the-units shoot beams similar to lasers, the-enemy-units in this-game shoot-projectiles resembling fireballs, which give the-player a-chance of destroying the-shots.
on october 25, 2016, gary announced to be leaving the-show to focus on gary music career after being with running-man for 6-years, but later returned as a-guest, only a week after gary final recording.
this-series was announced that original-cast-member-charlotte-crosby had quit the-show and that this would be her-final-series.
as a-"space-pilot-trainee", the-player destroys tie-fighters using a-first-person-heads-up-display.
licensed-releases for the atari 2600 began with the empire strikes back (1982) in which the-player piloted a-snowspeeder during the-battle of hoth, destroying at-at walkers.
several-other-games appeared, such as return of the-jedi: death-star-battle (1983), where the-player controlled the-millennium-falcon in a-mission to destroy the-second-death-star, and jedi-arena (1983), the-first-game to attempt to simulate a-lightsaber-battle (in this-case, clearly inspired by the-star-wars-scene, where luke-skywalker trains with a-seeker).
the-player enters the-seat of luke's-red-five-x-wing-fighter, battles-waves of tie-fighters led by darth-vader, weaves through towers across the-surface of the-death-star, and plummets through the-battle-station's-trench in an-attempt to destroy the-battle-station's-trench.
so through lucasfilm, lucas started lucas own video game company, which lucas named lucasarts.
however, since lucas had already licensed the-rights to develop star-wars-games, lucasfilm instead developed original-adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games.
rebellion incorporated ships and planets not found in the-original-canon, such as the-rebel-assault-frigate and the-bulwark-cruiser.
jedi-starfighter was released, allowing the-player to be a-jedi-master flying a-jedi-starfighter.
shadows of the-empire was part of a-lucasarts-attempt to create a-story between the empire strikes back and return of jedi, putting the-player in control of mercenary-dash-rendar.
the-game was well received and well reviewed, the-game put the-player in the-role of kyle-katarn, who would later appear in multiple-games, novels, and comics.
katarn is a-former-imperial-stormtrooper who joins the-rebellion and ultimately becomes a-jedi, a-plot-arc similar to that of finn in the-2015-film the force awakens.
the-force unleashed ====
the-force unleashed
the-force unleashed ii
apprentice of the-force (2004)
trading-card-games---champions of the-force (2008 ,-pc),compilations
only-original-trilogy-characters (luke-skywalker, princess-leia,-han-solo, boba-fett, darth-vader and emperor-palpatine) and planets (tatooine, hoth and endor) were playable on launch.
the-first-battlefront addresses a-major-criticism of the-previous-game by including a-singleplayer-campaign with a-story-mode-set between the-ending of return of the-jedi and the-beginning of the force awakens, in which the-player controls an-imperial-special-forces-commander named iden versio; additionally, characters from the-films, including luke-skywalker, leia-organa, han-solo, lando-calrissian and kylo-ren are playable.
prior to its-closure in 2017, visceral-games was working on an-untitled-game set in the-time between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
balance of the-force (2013)
the-force awakens (2016)
the-last-jedi (2018)
the-force awakens (2016):
din-djarin and grogu from the-mandalorian also appear as playable-skins in the-2020-chapter-two,-season-five-event, zero-point.
at release featuring darth-vader exclusively in the-playstation-3-version, with yoda exclusively in the-xbox-360-version, and darth-vader's apprentice galen starkiller marek in both-versions.
months after the-release, darth-vader and yoda were made available for purchase as downloadable-content, each at the-version darth-vader and yoda were absent at release.
the-force is strong with this-one (but not that one):
the-force-unleashed is an-action-adventure-game developed by lucasarts and part of the-force
the-force-unleashed is a-third-person-action-game in which the-player's-character's-weapons are the-force and a-lightsaber.
after imperial-spies track down a-jedi-survivor of the-great-purge named kento marek on the-planet-kashyyyk, darth-vader personally leads the-search for darth-vader while overseeing the-imperial-invasion of the-planet.
years later, after galen (given the-alias "starkiller" by vader) reaches adulthood and completes his-training, his is sent by his-master to eliminate a-select-group of jedi-survivors across the-galaxy as a-final-test to prepare his for vader's ultimate goal: assassinating the-emperor so that vader and starkiller could rule the-galaxy together.
during vader-mission, starkiller is attacked by proxy, who attempts to fulfill starkiller programming by killing vader, but starkiller defeats vader, destroys the-facility, and pulls a-star-destroyer out of the-sky using the-force .
surviving thanks to proxy sacrificing the-emperor to distract vader, starkiller vows to rescue the-senators and kota, and uses the-force to ascertain the-senators and kota location: the-death-star.
at this-point, the-player must choose between saving kota (light-side) or killing vader (dark-side).
if the-player chooses the-light-side, starkiller defeats the-emperor, but spares the-emperor at kota's-urging.
on kashyyyk, the-senators decide to proceed with the-rebellion and leia chooses starkiller's-family-crest as the-senators symbol.
if the-player chooses the-dark-side, starkiller finishes off vader and is congratulated by the-emperor, who commands starkiller to kill kota to sever starkiller ties to the-jedi and become a-sith-lord.
luke-skywalker, who began training as a-jedi eventually finds and defeats skywalker in the-base's-hangar, severing luke-skywalker, who began training as a-jedi right hand.
when the-millennium-falcon tries to take off, starkiller seizes the-millennium-falcon with the-force while goading skywalker to give into the-dark-side to rescue skywalker friends.
skywalker attacks starkiller with force-lightning, causing skywalker to let go of the-ship and congratulate skywalker for embracing the-dark-side, planning to make skywalker skywalker apprentice the same way vader did to skywalker.
although starkiller starts as vader's-apprentice, a-focus of the-game is to allow the-character to evolve into "something more heroic, something greater."
witwer secured the-role by demonstrating to developers witwer deep understanding of the-character; in portraying starkiller, witwer brought many-new-ideas about the-character and imbued the-character with a-sense of humanity.
developers tried not to make starkiller so evil that players would have difficulty connecting to the-character, aiming to strike a-balance between loyalty to the-character master and the-character growing sense of disillusionment with the-empire.
the-character's-name is an-homage to "anakin-starkiller," the-original-name of the-character that eventually became luke-skywalker.
matt-sloan as darth-vader — a-powerful-dark-lord of the-sith,-high-ranking-enforcer of the-empire, and starkiller's-master, who discovers starkiller as a-child and trains starkiller.
the-name "juno-eclipse" was originally proposed as a-name for the-character eventually called "asajj ventress" — it was ultimately rejected as insufficiently villainous.
a-jedi-master-and-clone-wars-veteran who provides starkiller with additional-insight into the-force and helps connect him to him jedi-heritage.
developers realized early that starkiller would require insight into the-force from someone other than darth-vader; after rejecting the-idea of this coming from the-spirit of qui-gon-jinn or some-version of darth-plagueis, developers decided to fill this-role with one of starkiller's jedi opponents.
the-character was conceived as a "tough-as-nails" contrast to the-more-traditional-image of a-jedi represented by jinn and obi-wan-kenobi.
the-character changed little after being conceived; fredricksen's-own-traits made the-character tougher.
the-character was originally conceived as a-pirate-captain, and christianson's-early-art included brood's-distinctive-lightsaber-tonfas.
the-emmy-award-winning-smits voices the-character
production was greatly aided by concept-art, which was intended to visually bridge the-two-star-wars-trilogies, convey the-impression of a "lived-in" universe, show how the-galaxy changes under imperial-rule, and to seem familiar yet new.
an-off-hand-comment about the-force in the-game being powerful enough "to pull a-star-destroyer out of the-sky" inspired an-image by senior-concept-artist-amy-beth-christenson that became an-important-part of the-developers'-idea-pitches and evolved into a-major-moment in the-game.
the-idea of "reimagining" the-force as "amped up" in the-force unleashed aligned with lucasarts'-overall-goal of harnessing the-power of the-latest-video-game-consoles to "dramatically"-change-gaming, specifically through the-use of simulation-based-gameplay.
lucas spent hours discussing with the-developers the-relationship between darth-vader and emperor-palpatine and provided feedback on what darth-vader would want out of and how darth-vader would motivate an-apprentice.
focus-group-feedback indicated that, while hunting down jedi at darth-vader's-order would be fun, the-character should be redeemed, in keeping with a-major-star-wars-motif.
lucas said having the-companies working together in the-same-building was "a great
== reception ==-1.738-million-unit-sales of the-force unleashed across all-platforms made it the third best-selling game globally in the-third-quarter of 2008; as of july 2009, it had sold six-million-copies.
wired.com, x-play, and gamespot criticized the-game's-third-person-camera and the-sequence that requires the-player to make starkiller pull a-star-destroyer out of the-sky.
ign found the-level-design in the-ultimate-sith-edition's-hoth-scenario uninteresting, and called the-boss fight against luke-skywalker tough but "not nearly as fun" as it could have been.
the-force unleashed on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-force unleashed at mobygames-star-wars:
the-force unleashed at imdb
each-movement of the-suite is named after a-planet of the-solar-system and the-solar-system corresponding astrological character as defined by holst.
the-concept of the-work is astrological rather than astronomical (which is why earth is not included, although sun and moon are also not included while including the-non-traditional-uranus and neptune): each-movement is intended to convey ideas and emotions associated with the-influence of the-planets on the-psyche, not the-roman-deities.
the-suite has seven-movements, each named after a-planet and the-suite corresponding-astrological-character (see planets in astrology): holst's-original-title, as seen on the-handwritten-full-score, was "seven-pieces for large-orchestra".
thus mars involves motion and neptune is static; venus is sublime while uranus is vulgar, and mercury is light and scherzando while saturn is heavy and plodding.
this-hypothesis is lent credence by the-fact that the-two-outer-movements, mars and neptune, are both written in rather-unusual-quintuple-meter.
japanese-composer-jun-nagao arranged the-planets for the-trouvère-quartet in 2003, including added-movements for earth and pluto, since the latter was considered a planet at the-time.
the-man who fell to earth features excerpts of venus and mars.
the-simpsons-episode "the-regina-monologues" features an-extract from mars in a-flashback-scene to world-war-ii.
john-williams used the-melodies and instrumentation of mars as the-inspiration for john-williams soundtrack for the-star-wars-films (specifically "the imperial march").
hans-zimmer closely used the-melodies, instrumentation and orchestration of mars as the-inspiration for hans-zimmer soundtrack for the-movie gladiator to the-extent that a-lawsuit for copyright-infringement was filed by the-holst-foundation.
hate-floats" features henchmen 21 and 24 comedically singing the-opening of mars as they gear up to prepare to return to they-duties as henchmen.
the-show was spun off from star-trek:
the-show was filmed primarily on the-paramount-studios-lot in los-angeles, california.
the-player can control three-characters at one-time in both-games.
revan's-true-identity is not revealed until a-predetermined-point in the-narrative where the-player is confronted by the-game's-central-antagonist darth-malak for the-first-time.
the-old-republic, revan is male and follows the-light-side-path, but the-player may choose revan's alias or gender as female during character-creation, and/or follow the-dark-side-path.
the-player may choose the-gender and decide what-path to take.
if the-player attempts to talk to t3 will simply communicate in a-series of bleeps, similar to other-astromech-droids like r2-d2.
it is later revealed that carth had a-family on telos who were killed by the-sith: his-son dustil later turns up as a-sith-convert and the-player has the-option of killing his-son dustil or opening his-son dustil eyes.
==== is a-wookiee who is friends with mission-vao and joins the-player's-party, swearing a-life-debt to the-player for helping mission-rescue zaalbar
disappointed with many-jedi-many-jedidecision, jolee left the-order and started wandering the-galaxy before crash-landing on kashyyyk, where jolee lived for 20-years until jolee met revan.
the-exile, who did not know bao-dur on a-personal-level at the-time, gave the-command, which sent massive-echoes in the-force throughout the-galaxy.
while visas-marr is considered blind, visas-marr is able to see through the-force which allowed visas-marr to find the-jedi-exile.
eventually the-player confronts nihilus with visas, and fights nihilus.
the-player may choose to have visas sacrifice nihilus to weaken nihilus.
as the-character was mostly covered – only-the-lower-half of her-face is visible – brian-menze decided to make what was shown "as sexy as possible".
menze noted that the-character has since become a fan favorite and a-popular-choice for cosplay-activities at fan-conventions.
he eventually tells the-player-character that he wishes the-player to be he master.
darth-nihilus === is known as the-lord of hunger, capable of draining the-life-force out of any-living-thing, and intends to consume as-much-life in the-galaxy as possible.
darth-nihilus === is depicted as a wraith-like being who speaks in unintelligible-rasps and feasts on the-force like a-parasite.
nihilus then uses the-might of the-sith-armada not to conquer planets, but to contain traya was later cast out and driven into exile so that nihilus could "feed" off the-force-energy of each-planet's-lifeforms, wiping planets of life.
the-exile, together with canderous-ordo and nihilus'-former-associate-visas-marr confront the-sith-lord on the-sith-lord ship, and nihilus is slain either after visas sacrifices nihilus due to visas shared link in the-force, or after the-sith-lord attempt to feast on the-exile's-connection to the-force backfires and weakens the-sith-lord.
nihilus is introduced to the-galaxy of heroes-mobile-game as a-playable-character in a-2017-update.
as the-“face” of the-marketing for the-sith-lords, the-character has been featured prominently in promotional-material and subject to merchandise, including several-action-figures.
the-character's-visual was quick to define; eurogamer describes the-character as "a-concept created and greenlit in all-of-15-minutes".
the-character has been frequently referenced in fan-art, cosplay and other-derivative-works since the-character appearance in the-sith-lords'.
the-character was also featured on the-the-howard-stern-show for several-weeks.
nihilus'-popularity has led to rumors of supposed-references to the-character in canon-star-wars works, such as the-identity of a-particular-ancient-sith-statue in star-wars:
menze noted in retrospect that co-creating darth-nihilus with avellone is a-career-highlight for avellone, and acknowledged that the-character "has gone on to be bigger than the-game we created".
prior to the-events of the-sith-lords, atris === had an-idealistic-view of the-jedi that bordered on fanaticism, believing that they were the-perfect-guardians of the-galaxy and, as a-result, did not tolerate any-criticism directed towards they.
allowing the-player to escape.
once the-player meets darth-bandon again, darth-bandon may choose a-dialogue-option to avenge trask-ulgo.
he was killed in the-orbital-bombardment of taris, from which-point the-player has to make their-escape from the-planet in he ship, the-ebon-hawk.
once the-player comes with zaalbar to kashyyyk in search of a-star-map, chuundar imprisons zaalbar and tells revan that he must kill their-father, freyrr, in the-shadowlands to free the-wookiee.
if revan chooses to kill freyrr, the-player leaves with the-gratitude of chuundar.
chuundar continues to enslave wookiees and the-player can no longer return to the-wookiee-village.
if revan spares freyyr, revan kills chuundar and the-slavers, frees the-wookiees, frees zaalbar, and leaves with the-gratitude of freyrr, able to return to the-village on kashyyyk at any-time, although the-player is unable to trade on kashyyk any longer after freyyr leads a-wookiee-rebellion that expels the-slavers from the-planet.
it is possible for the-player to assume control of b4-d4 if the-exile helps the ithorians with the-exile restoration project.
in a-dark-side-option, the-player can duel bendak in a-death-match after defeating the-reigning-taris-duelling-champion, twitch.
the-player will receive credits from ajuur for winning the-illegal-death-match and receive bendak's-blaster-pistol, and will receive the-bounty-fee from zax as well.
gameplay == games in the-battlefront-series normally revolve around two-armies – the-galactic-republic versus the-confederacy of independent-systems or the-galactic-empire versus the-rebel-alliance or first-order versus the-resistance – fighting each other on various-maps.
there are more-modes in this-game, such as conquest, hunt (where players fight as natives on planets against other-natives or certain-troopers in an-army, such as wampas vs. rebels on hoth or tusken-raiders vs. jawas on tatooine, to earn 50-points first), capture the-flag (both with 1-and-2-flags), assault (which, on tatooine only, is also available as heroes vs villains, where one-team plays as the-heroes and the-other-one as the-villains in a-race to rack up points by defeating enemies) and space-battles.
in 2018, concept-art surfaced of a-canceled-battlefront-iv, rather than attempting to fit within the-previous-games-and-films'-continuity, concept-art showed the-game was meant to focus on an-alternate-reality where obi-wan-kenobi and luke-skywalker fell to the-dark-side, instead of anakin-skywalker.
renegade-squadron is also available in a-bundle-pack with the-then-new-white-psp-redesign featuring darth-vader on the-back.
aside from new-heroes and vehicles, such as the-millennium-falcon, a-new-feature is the-ability to create a-character, allowing the-player to adjust the-character's-features such as weapon, appearance, and speed.
however, the-character will be vulnerable due to the-lacking of certain-aspects that will be replaced by others.
for example, the-character may be fast but weak or have good-weapons but no-stamina and speed.
then the-player starts a-series of missions ranging in objectives while including cut-scenes between each-mission.
the-gameplay is a-first-person-perspective-shooter that can use the-touch-features of a-phone, although the-player has no-control over movement.
the-game features a-pseudo-campaign — a-cooperative-experience allowing the-player to experience gameplay with one-or-two-players and computer-controlled-allies and opponents.
star-wars-battlefront-ii features both-single-player-and-multiplayer-game-modes, a-customizable-character-class-system, and content based on all-star-wars-movies up to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (with content for the-other-movies, as well as television-series being added later on via free-dlc).
introduced in star-wars: the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in the star-wars sequel trilogy ,
english-actress-gwendoline-christie returned to the-role in the next of the-trilogy's-films, star wars: the-last-jedi (2017), and in the-animated-television-series star-wars-resistance (2018) and several-video-games.
the-character also made an-additional-appearance in before the-awakening, an anthology book set before the-events of the force awakens.
j.-j.-abrams created phasma from an-armor-design originally developed for kylo-ren and named her after the-1979-horror-film phantasm.
the-character was originally conceived as male.
nonetheless, merchandise featuring the-character found success, and her-figure was the-best-selling of all-the-force
kaplan intended for the-visuals of the-first-order to contrast with that of the-resistance, appearing in colors like "black, teal blue, and steel gray", with stormtroopers being updated to be more simplified and modernized.
kaplan designed the-character believing it would be "extremely cool" to have a-silver-armored-character in the-1979-horror-film phantasm.
the-character believing it would be "extremely cool" to have a-silver-armored-character in the-film was not originally conceived as a-woman, but rather was changed from male to female during casting, less than three weeks before principal-shooting began.
christie was not aware that the-character was originally a-man.
the-commander of the-first-order's-stormtroopers, captain-phasma is described as a-"tough-veteran-commander" and one of a-"commanding-triumvirate" of the-first-order alongside kylo-ren and general-hux.
the-actress called the-character "a-malevolent-force" who takes pleasure in the-actress cruelty, something
chris-laverty, creator of costume-analysis-site-clothes on film, called her-armor "probably-the-most-regal-costume" in the-force awakens, and noted her-armor "probably-the-most-regal-costume" in the-force awakens as a-reflection of her-status.
gill-armor called to mind-mirrors, symbols of "self-reflection and self-examination", the-feelings gill brings in finn when gill inadvertently helps inspire him to defect.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
phasma is present when finn's-defection is discovered; phasma mentions that finn had never committed any-infractions in the-past.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
the-last-jedi when finn, mechanic-rose-tico, and computer-hacker-dj infiltrate the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy, a-37.5-miles (60.4-km)-wide-flagship, in an-attempt to disable the-ship's-tracking-device.
the-last-jedi when finn, mechanic-rose-tico, and computer-hacker-dj infiltrate the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy, a-37.5-miles (60.4-km)-wide-flagship, in an-attempt to disable the-ship's-tracking-device are captured and brought before phasma-and-phasma-stormtroopers.
in the-ensuing-chaos, phasma and finn fight.
at first, phasma gets the-upper-hand, knocking finn into a-pit.
finn emerges unharmed from a-pit, riding its-elevator; finn knocks phasma down, breaking the-visor of phasma helmet, and exposing part of phasma face around the-left-eye.
the-rise of skywalker was hinted, john-boyega confirmed at the-episode-ix-panel during celebration-chicago that phasma indeed died in the-last-jedi, officially confirming john-boyega death.
before the-awakening, a-prequel-anthology, features the-character in a-short-story centered around finn.
in the-character, finn monitors finn's performance in combat-simulation and, although praising his-skill, finn criticizes his-rescuing of a-weaker-soldier.
the-lego-star-wars-version of phasma also appears in the-2016-short-form-animated-series lego-star-wars: the-resistance rises.
polygon's-susana-polo considered the-force awakens a-great-achievement for hollywood for the-force diversity regardless of the-force quality, though polygon's-susana-polo used phasma as an-example of how the-film was not perfect, noting rumors of phasma's minor role despite polygon's-susana-polo being the first on-screen female stormtrooper.
the-telegraph's-jonathan-mcaloon called the-telegraph's-jonathan-mcaloon "one-criticism" of the-force awakens the-underuse of phasma, and wondered if polygon's-susana-polo-face would ever be revealed in the-films.
bill-keveney further criticized phasma's-role in the-force awakens by attributing the-first-order's-defeat to being largely her-fault, as well as her-"recycled"-appearance in the-last-jedi.
merchandise featuring the-character proved popular.
foster wanted to develop a-romance between rey and finn, which foster thought was implied in the-film.
early in the-novel, a-sequence with leia reveals the-origin of main-factions in the-film: the-resistance, the-new-republic and the-first-order.
a-sequence where rey and chewbacca encounter unkar-plutt on takodana.
her was eventually destroyed by the-combined-efforts of skywalker and skywalker sith counterpart, darth-krayt, leader of the-one-sith.
the-rise of skywalker was named after the-rise of skywalker.
an-alderaanian-senator; as an-alderaanian-senator is the-father of breha-antilles, wife to bail organa, bail-antilles is the-adoptive-grandfather of princess leia organa.
a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars was known as "the-golden-tempter", and was also known for a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars extreme ambition and wanted to replace palpatine as supreme-chancellor.
the-force unleashed.
janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine; served as palpatine's aide during janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine time as senator of naboo and the-chommell-sector, and replaced janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine in the-position after palpatine was elected supreme chancellor.
greejatus continued to served in this-capacity when the-galactic-empire came to power and palpatine declared palpatine emperor.
michael-stackpole, who created the-character for the-x-wing-series, depicts horn in the-star-wars-customizable-card-game.
mara-jade-skywalker — portrayed by shannon-mcrandle-"emperor's-hand" to palpatine during palpatine reign; luke-skywalker's-wife.
k == k-3px blue and black-3px-series-protocol-droid and assassin who is darth-vader's-henchman in darth-vader's-search for luke-skywalker in the-1970s/1980s-marvel-comics-star-wars-series, issues #74-76 and #80 (1983).
michael-gregory-jedi who served as jaesa-willsaam's-jedi-master was known to touch the-dark-side of the-force while within the-lines of the-sith-empire, yet remained true to the-jedi-code.
the-son of triclops and grandson of palpatine was found by luke-skywalker, who then inducted the-son of triclops and grandson of palpatine into the-rebel-alliance.
ugo-networks listed the-character as the-11th-worst-expanded-universe-character, saying that while ugo-networks did not have any-problems with the-character as a-whole, his-name "has got to go".
lumiya introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the-empire.
introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the-empire-returns in the-legacy of the-force-series, where lumiya introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the empire trains jacen-solo in the-ways of the-sith and turns the-sith to the-dark-side of the-force.
darth-vader discovers darth-vader hiding on kashyyyk and kills darth-vader at the-beginning of star-wars:
the-force unleashed, then takes his-young-son as his-secret-apprentice.
he believed that he was a-prophet chosen by the-will of the-force and would become the-founder of the-prophets of the-dark-side.
prequel-era-books establish that a-jedi-spirit-luke-surname was originally masana, and a-jedi-spirit luke fought in the-clone-wars.
the-glove of darth-vader is shot in the-leg by tibor, zorba the-hutt's-personal-bounty-hunter, when the-moffship pulls the zorba express into the-moffship, but survives.
husband of sola-naberrie and father of ryoo-naberrie & pooja-naberrie is also the-uncle of luke-skywalker and leia-organa.
the-sole-survivor of the-sith-lords, and a-member of the-sith-triumvirate-planet's-destruction, nihilus became singularly focused on draining the-force from all-living-beings to satisfy the-sith-lords, and a-member of the-sith-triumvirate eternal-hunger for the-force.
following palpatine's-death at the-battle of endor, pestage took palpatine-place as emperor, but was later betrayed by the-other-imperial-advisors when palpatine agreed to turn coruscant over to the-new-republic.
palpatine was executed by ysanne-isard's-agents.
an-increasing-unstable-and-vengeful-alema hunts leia throughout the-rest of the-dark-nest-novels and much of the-legacy of the-force-series.
the-junior-novelization of the-rise of skywalker references sadow.
cade-skywalker-descendant of luke and mara-jade-skywalker and protagonist of the-star-wars: legacy-comic-series.
the-former-apprentice of darth-vader in star-wars:
the-force unleashed.
cassio's-brothers orman, silas, and ulric are active in the-empire, particularly the family baron orman, who wishes to take revenge against darth-vader for taking darth-vader vision (for which darth-vader now has a-cybernetic-device), and wants to gain the-emperor's-favor by slaying luke and darth-vader rebel friends.
orman, practiced with a-lightsaber, is killed by luke when darth-vader casts an-illusion making it appear that orman is darth-vader.
baron-merillion-tarko — voiced by dee-bradley-baker-imperial-moff who controls the-empire's-operations on the-planet cato-neimoidia in star-wars: the-force unleashed-ii.
following palpatine's-death at the-battle of endor, palpatine attempted to join the-central-committee of grand-moffs, but changed palpatine mind and was executed under charges of treason.
led one of the-separatist-assaults on mon-calamari; killed by darth-vader on mustafar.
triclops created from extracting the-dna from palpatine and inserted into a-woman named niobi.
later found by luke-skywalker and joined the-alliance.
the-self-proclaimed-son of palpatine and the-ruler of half of the-empire.
odan-urr believed that the-only-way to truly master the-force was to first fully understand the-jedi-code.
her dies under interrogation by jacen, further pushing jacen solo's galactic-army-guard towards the-dark-side of the-force and jacen solo's galactic-army-guard ultimate-rebirth as darth-caedus.
regains vima-da-boda fallen old republic jedi connection to the-force after aiding leia-organa-solo in dark-empire-ii and empire's-end./-v /
the-force unleashed ii
as fett's-occasional-partner, she followed fett to cato-neimoidia, shortly after fett received a-mission from darth-vader to apprehend a-renegade-clone of the-late-galen-marek-prince-xizor
a-character in shadows of the-empire puts a-hit on luke-skywalker, so that darth-vader will suffer the-emperor's-wrath and the-emperor will become the-emperor apprentice and the-emperor grip on the-galaxy will be supreme.
he later becomes dissastified with palpatine's-rule as emperor and attempts to overthrow palpatine, but is stopped by darth-vader and grand-admiral-thrawn.
zekk-jedi-friend of jacen and jaina-solo, appearing in young-jedi-knights, the-new-jedi-order, legacy of the-force and fate of the-jedi-series.
zekk-jedi-friend of jacen and jaina-solo, appearing in young-jedi-knights, the-new-jedi-order, legacy of the-force and fate of the-jedi-series was discovered to be force sensitive in the-jedi-series and was trained by the-shadow-academy as a-dark-jedi, but later joined the-new-jedi-order.
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
the-last-jedi (2017), and concluded with episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) and concludes with episode ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-prequel-trilogy follows his-children, luke and leia, as his-children, luke and leia join the-rebel-alliance and battle-vader, palpatine and his-galactic-empire.
the-prequel trilogy features ben-solo-a.k.a-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin—who seeks to rule the-galaxy with rey, the-granddaughter of palpatine and the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke and leia.
as lucas was outlining a-trilogy of trilogies, lucas also imagined making additional-movies unrelated to the-skywalker-saga.
after the-conclusion of lucas-then-six-episode-saga in 2005, lucas returned to spin-offs in the-form of television-series.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-character had become a fan favorite.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor.
at d23-expo in august 2019, at d23-expo was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
lucas had the-idea for a-science-fiction-film in the-vein of flash-gordon around the-time lucas completed lucas first film, thx 1138 (1971) and began working on a-treatment after the-release of american-graffiti (1973).
star-wars focuses on the-journey of luke-skywalker (hamill), who along with the-wizened-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi (guinness), smuggler-han-solo (ford), and his-wookiee-companion-chewbacca (mayhew), attempts to free princess-leia (fisher) from the-clutches of the-tyrannical-galactic-empire.
before is captured, leia hides the-plans in the-memory of astromech-droid-r2-d2, who flees in an-escape-pod to the-desert-planet-tatooine accompanied by protocol-droid-c-3po.
while luke is cleaning r2-d2-part of a-holographic-recording of leia starts playing, a-message for obi-wan-kenobi where obi-wan-kenobi requests obi-wan-kenobi help.
later, after luke finds r2-d2 missing, luke is attacked by scavenging sand-people while searching for luke, but is rescued by elderly-hermit-"old-ben"-kenobi, an-acquaintance of luke's, who reveals that "obi-wan" is his-true-name.
obi-wan tells luke of obi-wan days as one of the-jedi-knights, the-former-peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who drew mystical-abilities from a-metaphysical-energy-field known as "the-force", but were ultimately hunted to near-extinction by the-empire.
luke learns that luke father fought alongside obi-wan as a-jedi-knight during the-clone-wars until vader, obi-wan's former pupil, turned to the-dark-side of the-force and murdered him.
obi-wan presents luke with obi-wan father's old lightsaber, the-signature-weapon of jedi-knights.
although luke initially declines obi-wan-offer to accompany obi-wan to alderaan and learn the-ways of the-force, obi-wan is left with no-choice after discovering that imperial-stormtroopers have killed obi-wan aunt and uncle and destroyed his-aunt-and-uncle-farm in his aunt and uncle search for the-droids.
traveling to a-cantina in mos-eisley to search for transport, luke and obi-wan hire han-solo, a-smuggler with a-price on his-head due to his-debt to local-mobster jabba the-hutt.
before the-millennium-falcon can reach alderaan, death-star-commander-grand-moff-tarkin interrogates leia about the-location of the-rebels's-secret-base, with the-threat of destroying her-home-planet, and, when-her-answers that the-base is on dantooine, the-base orders alderaan destroyed simply as a-show of force.
inside the-death-star, obi-wan attempts to disable the-space-station's-tractor-beam, and luke persuades han and chewbacca to help obi-wan rescue leia after discovering that obi-wan is scheduled to be executed.
using a-tracking-device, the-empire tracks the-death-star with leia to the-hidden-rebel-base, actually located on yavin-iv.
while han abandons the-rebels after collecting han reward for rescuing leia, luke joins their-starfighter-squadron in a-desperate-attack against the-death-star with leia.
in the-ensuing-battle, the-rebels suffer heavy-losses as vader leads a-squadron of tie-fighters against the-rebels, but han unexpectedly returns to aid the-rebels in the-death-star with leia, narrowly managing to save luke before vader can shoot luke down.
guided by the-disembodied-voice of obi-wan's-spirit, luke turns off luke targeting computer and uses the-force to aim luke torpedoes into the-exhaust-port, destroying the-death-star-moments before the-force fires on the-rebel-base.
lucas favored casting young-actors who lacked long-experience.
to play luke (then known as luke starkiller), lucas sought actors who could project intelligence and integrity.
harrison-ford as han-solo: a-cynical-smuggler hired by obi-wan and luke to take them to alderaan in alderaan ship, the-millennium-falcon, co-piloted with chewbacca.
lucas initially rejected casting ford for the-role, as lucas "wanted new-faces"; ford had previously worked with lucas on american-graffiti.
instead, lucas asked ford to assist in the-auditions by reading lines with the-other-actors and explaining the-concepts and history behind the-scenes that the-other-actors were reading.
lucas was eventually won over by ford's-portrayal and cast lucas instead of kurt-russell, nick-nolte, sylvester-stallone, bill-murray, christopher-walken, burt-reynolds, jack-nicholson, al-pacino, steve-martin, chevy-chase, or perry-king (who later played han-solo in the radio plays).
lucas originally had peter-cushing in mind for the-role of obi-wan-kenobi, but lucas believed that "lucas lean features" would be better employed in the-role of grand-moff-tarkin instead.
lucas commended peter-cushing's-performance, saying "[lucas] is a-very-good-actor.
an-aging-jedi-master and former-mentor of darth-vader who introduces luke to the-force.
according to mifune's-daughter, mika-kitagawa, japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) father turned down lucas' offers for kenobi and darth-vader because "japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) was concerned about how the-film would look and that the-film would cheapen the-image of samurai...
lucas credited he with inspiring the-cast and crew to work harder, saying that guinness contributed significantly to the-completion of the-filming.
a-protocol-droid who is "fluent in over-six-million-forms of communication" saw a-ralph-mcquarrie-drawing of the-character and was struck by the-vulnerability in the-robot's-face.
initially, lucas did not intend to use anthony-daniels as c-3po:
lucas originally intended for orson-welles to voice the-character after dismissing david-prowse due to david-prowse west country english accent (which led to david-prowse being nicknamed, within the-cast, as "darth-farmer").
however, determining that orson-welles-voice would be too familiar to audiences, lucas instead cast then-relatively-less-recognizable-james-earl-jones as the-voice of darth-vader.
lucas had the-idea for a-space-fantasy-film in 1971, after lucas completed directing lucas first-full-length-feature, thx 1138.
originally, lucas wanted to adapt the-flash-gordon-space-adventure-comics and serials into lucas own films, having been fascinated by his-own-films since lucas was young.
lucas later said: i especially loved the-flash-gordon-serials ...
at the-cannes-film-festival following the-completion of thx 1138, lucas pushed towards buying the-flash-gordon-rights, but the-flash-gordon-rights were already tied-up with dino-de-laurentiis.
lucas later recounted: i wanted to make a-flash-gordon-movie, with all-the-trimmings, but i couldn't obtain the-rights to the-characters.
director-francis-ford-coppola, who accompanied lucas in trying to buy the-flash-gordon-rights, recounted in 1999: "
lucas would later claim that lucas had the-idea for an-original-space-opera long before 1971, and that lucas even tried to film it before american-graffiti.
believing that the-bleak-tone of thx 1138 led to its-poor-reception, lucas chose to make star-wars more optimistic; this is what led to its-fun-and-adventurous-tone.
lucas went to united-artists and showed united-artists the-script for american-graffiti, but united-artists passed on the-film, which was then picked up by universal-pictures.
united-artists also passed on lucas-space-opera-concept, which lucas shelved for the time being.
after spending the-next-two-years completing american-graffiti, lucas turned lucas attention to lucas space opera.
lucas drew inspiration from politics of the-era, later saying, “it was really about the-vietnam-war, and that was the-period where nixon was trying to run for a-[second]-term. "
lucas began writing in january 1973, "eight hours a day, five-days a week", by taking small-notes, inventing odd-names and assigning odd-names possible-characterizations.
lucas would discard many of these by the-time the-final-script was written, but lucas included several-names and places in the-final-script or the-final-script sequels.
lucas used these-initial-names and ideas to compile a-two-page-synopsis titled journal of the-whills, which told the-tale of the-training of apprentice-cj-thorpe as a-"jedi-bendu"-space-commando by the-legendary-mace windy.
frustrated that his-story was too difficult to understand, lucas then began writing a-13-page-treatment called the star wars on april 17, 1973, which had narrative-parallels with kurosawa's-1958-film the-hidden-fortress.
lucas and producer-gary-kurtz presented the-film-treatment to universal-pictures, the-studio that financed american-graffiti; while lucas and producer-gary-kurtz agreed it could be "a-very-commercial-venture",
lucas and producer gary-kurtz had doubts about lucas ability to pull it all off," and said that lucas should follow american-graffiti with more-consequential-themes.
lucas said, "i've always been an-outsider to hollywood-types.
lucas would later recontextualize the-discussion around the-film, saying the-film was born out of research into "psychological-underpinings of mythology", a claim that had been dismissed by kurtz as self-aggrandizing: "
lucas and kurtz, in pitching the-film, said that it would be "low-budget, roger-corman-style, and the-budget was never going to be more than—
after disney rejected the-project, lucas and kurtz persisted in securing a-studio to support the-film because "other-people had read the-film and said, 'yeah, the-film could be a-good-idea.'
lucas pursued alan-ladd-jr., the-head of 20th-century-fox, and in june 1973 completed a-deal to write and direct the-film.
although ladd did not grasp the-technical-side of the-project, ladd believed that lucas was talented.
lucas later stated that ladd "invested in me, lucas did not invest in the-movie."
the-deal gave lucas $150,000 to write and direct the-film.
american-graffiti's-positive-reception afforded lucas the-leverage necessary to renegotiate lucas deal with ladd and request the-sequel-rights to the-film in august 1973.
since commencing lucas-writing-process in january 1973, lucas had done "various-rewrites in the-evenings after the-day's-work.
lucas would write four-different-screenplays for star-wars, "searching for just-the-right-ingredients, characters and storyline.
lucas envisioned the-corellian-smuggler, han-solo, as a-large,-green-skinned-monster with gills.
lucas based chewbacca on lucas alaskan malamute dog, indiana (whom lucas would later use as eponym for lucas character indiana jones), who often acted as the director's "co-pilot" by sitting in the-passenger-seat of lucas car.
lucas completed a-second-draft in january 1975 as adventures of the-starkiller, episode one: the-star-wars, making heavy-simplifications and introducing the-young-hero on a-farm as luke-starkiller.
for example, luke had several-brothers, as well as luke father, who appears in a-minor-role at the-end of the-film.
according to lucas, the-second-draft was over 200 pages long, and led lucas to split up the-story into multiple-films spanning over multiple-trilogies.
lucas began to rewrite the-second-draft, creating a-synopsis for the-third-draft.
during work on this-rewrite, lucas began researching the-science-fiction-genre by watching films and reading books (including j.-r.-r.-tolkien's-the-hobbit) and comics.
lucas also claims to have read scholastic-works like joseph-campbell's-the-hero with a-thousand-faces, james-george-frazer's-the-golden-bough, and even-bruno-bettelheim's-the-uses of enchantment.
according to lucas, lucas wrote a-rough-draft of about-250–300-pages long, which contained the-outline for the-entire-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas realized that it was too long for a-single-film, and decided to subdivide it into a-trilogy.
lucas stated that the-story evolved over time and that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as it exists now [in 1983] ...
in 1975 lucas suggested he could make a-trilogy, which "ends with the-destruction of the-empire" and a-possible-prequel "about the-backstory of kenobi as a-young-man."
after the-film's-smash-success, lucasfilm announced that lucas had already written "twelve-stories in the-adventures of luke-skywalker" which, according to kurtz, were set to be "separate-adventures rather than direct-sequels. "
the-writing of the-third-draft, lucas hired conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to create paintings of certain-scenes, several of which lucas included with lucas screenplay when lucas delivered conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to 20th-century-fox.
subsequently, lucas started writing with a-budget in mind, conceiving the cheap, "used" look of much of the-film, and (with fox having just shut down the-film special effects department) reducing the-number of complex-special-effects-shots called for by the-script.
the-draft characterized luke as an-only-child, with luke father already dead, replacing luke with a-substitute named ben kenobi.
lucas worked with lucas friends gloria-katz and willard-huyck to revise the-fourth-draft into the-final-pre-production-script.
lucas finished writing the-final-pre-production-script in march 1976, when the-crew started filming.
during production, he changed luke's-name from starkiller to skywalker and altered the-title to the-star-wars and later-star-wars.
for the-film's-opening-crawl, lucas originally wrote a-composition consisting of six-paragraphs with four-sentences each.
lucas said, "the-crawl is such-a-hard-thing because you have to be careful that you're not using too-many-words that people don't understand.
" lucas showed his-draft to his-friends.
lucas recounted what de-palma said the first time de-palma saw it: "george, you're out of your-mind!
two years later, after completing american-graffiti, lucas approached mcquarrie and asked lucas if lucas would be interested "in doing something for star-wars."
the-film was ambitious as lucas wanted to create fresh-prop-prototypes and sets (based on mcquarrie's-paintings) that had never been realized before in science-fiction-films.
lucas commissioned production-designers john-barry and roger-christian, who were working on the-sets of the-film lucky-lady (1975) when lucas first approached them, to work on the-production-sets.
they had a-conversation with lucas on what he would like the-film to appear like, with they creating the-desired-sets.
christian said that lucas "didn't want anything [in star-wars] to stand out, christian wanted it [to look] all real and used.
lucas described a-"used-future"-concept to the-production-designers in which all-devices, ships, and buildings to do with tatooine or the-rebels looked aged and dirty, as opposed to the-sleeker-designs of the-empire.
lucas also wanted the-spaceships to look "cobbled together, as opposed to a-sleek-monoshape."
" lucas believed that "what is required for true-credibility is a-used-future", opposing the-interpretation of "future in most-futurist-movies" that "always looks new and clean and shiny."
although lucas initially provided funds using lucas earnings from american-graffiti, it was inadequate.
he suggested that lucas use scrap in making the-dressings, and the-director agreed.
in 1975, lucas formed lucas own visual-effects-company-industrial-light & magic (ilm) after discovering that 20th-century-fox's-visual-effects-department had been disbanded.
" lucas wanted star-wars to embrace the-combination of "strange-graphics of fantasy" and "the-feel of a-documentary" to impress a-distinct-look.
unsworth was interested in working with the-director, and initially accepted the-job when the-job was offered to unsworth by lucas and kurtz.
lucas called up for other-cinematographers, and eventually chose taylor, basing lucas choice on taylor's cinematography for dr.-strangelove and a-hard-day's-night (both 1964).
on lucas-decision, lucas said: "i thought they were good, eccentrically photographed pictures with a-strong-documentary-flavor. "
taylor said that lucas, who was consumed by the-details of the-complicated-production, "avoided all-meetings and contact with lucas from day one, so i read the-extra-long-script many times and made my-own-decisions as to how i would shoot the-picture."
during production, lucas and taylor—whom kurtz called "old-school" and "crotchety"—had disputes over filming.
with a-background in independent-filmmaking, lucas was accustomed to creating most of the-elements of the-film himself.
his-lighting-suggestions were rejected by taylor, who believed that lucas was overstepping lucas boundaries by giving specific-instructions, sometimes even moving lights and cameras himself.
lucas would] say, 'turn off this-light, and turn off this-light.'
originally, lucas envisioned the-planet of tatooine, where much of the-film would take place, as a-jungle-planet.
gary-kurtz traveled to the-philippines to-scout-locations; however, because of the-idea of spending-months filming in the-jungle would make lucas "itchy", gary-kurtz refined gary-kurtz vision and made tatooine a desert planet instead.
lucas later stated that lucas had wanted to make it look like outer-space.
lucas fell behind schedule in the-first-week of shooting due to malfunctioning-props and electronic-breakdowns.
" given this-situation, lucas requested heavy-filtration, which taylor rejected, who said: "i thought the-look of the-film should be absolutely clean ...
lucas chose hotel-sidi-driss, which is larger than the-typical-underground-dwellings, to shoot the-interior of luke's-homestead.
because of stricter-working-conditions, filming in britain had to finish by 5:30-pm, unless lucas was in the-middle of a-scene.
lucas commissioned computer-programmer-larry-cuba to create the-animated-death-star-plans shown at the-rebel-base on yavin 4.
lucas selected the-location as a-potential-filming-site after seeing a-poster of it hanging at a-travel-agency while lucas was filming in britain.
this inspired lucas to send a-film-crew to guatemala in march 1977 to shoot scenes.
while shooting, lucas rarely spoke to the-actors, who believed that lucas expected too much of them while providing little-direction.
kurtz has said that lucas "wasn't gregarious, kurtz's very much a loner and very shy, so kurtz didn't like large-groups of people , kurtz didn't like working with a-large-crew, kurtz didn't like working with a-lot of actors. "
ladd offered lucas some of the-only-support from the-studio; kurtz dealt with scrutiny from board-members over the-rising-budget and complex-screenplay-drafts.
" at the-same-time, after production fell behind schedule, ladd told lucas-lucas had to finish production within a-week or lucas would be forced to shut down production.
editor-john-jympson began cutting the-film together while lucas was still filming in tunisia; as lucas noted, editor-john-jympson was in an-"impossible-position" because lucas had not explained any of the-film's material to editor-john-jympson.
when lucas watched editor-john-jympson's-rough-cut for the-first-time, lucas disliked what lucas saw.
j.-w.-rinzler wrote that "jympson's-selection of takes was questionable, and lucas seemed to be having trouble doing match-cuts.
lucas was prepared to give editor-john-jympson more time; editor-john-jympson disliked lucas working style.
as production went on, lucas still disapproved of jympson's cut and fired lucas halfway through the-film's-production.
lucas commented: "unfortunately it didn't work out.
in the-end, i don't think lucas fully understood the-movie and
after attempting to persuade jympson to cut the-film his-way, lucas replaced his with paul-hirsch, richard-chew and richard-chew then-wife, marcia lucas, who was also cutting the-film new-york, new-york (1977) with lucas's friend martin-scorsese.
these-early-scenes, set in anchorhead on the-planet-tatooine, presented the-audience with luke's-everyday-life among luke-friends as it is affected by the-space-battle above the-planet; they also introduced the-character of biggs-darklighter, luke's-closest-friend who departs to join the-rebellion.
so we simplified the-film by taking out luke and biggs.
lucas was looking for a-way of accelerating the-storytelling, and removing luke's-early-scenes would distinguish star-wars from lucas earlier-teenage-drama and "get that "american-graffiti in outer-space feel out of "american-graffiti in outer-space.
lucas also stated that lucas wanted to move the-narrative-focus to c-3po and r2-d2: "at the-time, to have the-first-half-hour of the-film be mainly about robots was a-bold-idea.
industrial-light & magic had spent half of industrial-light & magic budget on four-shots that lucas deemed unacceptable.
lucas inspired ilm by editing together aerial-dogfights from old-war-films, which enhanced the-pacing of the-scenes.
sound-designer-ben-burtt had created a-library of sounds that lucas referred to as an-"organic-soundtrack."
lucas and burtt created the-robotic-voice of r2-d2 by filtering lucas and burtt voices through an-electronic-synthesizer.
in february 1977, lucas screened an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book.
lucas later said that the-group was honest and seemed bemused by the-film.
lucas found the-experience shocking and rewarding, having never gained any-approval from studio-executives before.
with the-project $2 million over budget, lucas was forced to make numerous-artistic-compromises to complete star-wars.
lucas had to write around a-scene featuring a-human-jabba the-hutt, which was scrapped due to not being in focus.
lucas would later claim lucas wanted to superimpose a-stop-motion-creature over the-actor - which lucas did in the-1997-special-edition with a-computer-generated-version of jabba.
however, all-the-script-drafts (with the-exception of one that lucas doctored after the-fact) describe jabba as humanoid, the-notion of lucas being an-alien not having come up until work on the-1979-re-release, and scrapped until the-special-edition.
lucas believed that the-film would portray visually-foreign-worlds, but that the-musical-score would give the-audience an-emotional-familiarity; lucas wanted a-grand-musical-sound for star-wars.
therefore, lucas assembled lucas favorite orchestral pieces for the-soundtrack, until lucas convinced lucas that an-original-score would be unique and more unified, having viewed lucas music choices as a-temp-track.
lucas would later deny having ever conceived using extant-music for the-film.
in march 1977, lucas conducted the-london-symphony-orchestra to record the-soundtrack in 12-days.
on a-visit to ilm in van-nuys, rice was instructed by lucas to produce a-logo that would intimidate the-viewer, and lucas reportedly asked for the-logo to appear "very fascist" in style.
lucas signed off on this-brochure in between takes while filming inserts for the-mos-eisley-cantina-scene.
20th-century-fox-poster, known as style ‘a’, depicted luke-skywalker standing in a-heroic-pose, brandishing a-shining-lightsaber above luke-skywalker head, with princess-leia below luke-skywalker, and a-large,-ghostly-image of darth-vader's-helmet looming behind them.
lucas himself was not able to predict how successful star-wars would be.
after visiting the-set of the-steven-spielberg-film-close-encounters of the-third-kind, lucas himself was sure close-encounters would outperform the-yet-to-be-released-star-wars at the-box-office.
lucas proposed they trade 2.5% of the-profit on each-other's-films; spielberg took the-trade, and still receives 2.5% of the-profits from star-wars.
amidst fox-pessimism, lucas elected to forgo lucas option to an-extra-$500,000-fee for directing star-wars, in exchange for releasing ownership of the-merchandising-and-sequel-rights for the-movie to fox.
fearing that the-film would fail, lucas had made plans to be in hawaii with lucas wife marcia.
when lucas went out for lunch with marcia, they encountered a-long-line of people along the-sidewalks leading to mann's-chinese-theatre, waiting to see star-wars.
lucas was still skeptical of the-film's-success, even with enthusiastic-reports from ladd and a-sound-studio in los-angeles.
while in hawaii, it was not until lucas watched walter-cronkite discuss the-gigantic-crowds for star-wars on the-cbs-evening-news that lucas realized lucas had become very wealthy.
when star-wars made an-unprecedented-second-opening at mann's-chinese-theatre on august 3, 1977, after william-friedkin's-sorcerer failed, thousands of people attended a-ceremony in which c-3po, r2-d2 and darth-vader placed thousands of people footprints in the-theater's-forecourt.
in 2010, lucas announced that all-six-previously-released-star-wars-films would be scanned and transferred to 3d for a-theatrical-release, but only-3d-versions of the-prequel-trilogy were completed before the-franchise was sold to disney in 2012.
lucas claims this was intended from the-beginning, and was only dropped to avoid confusing audiences: "
" hamill recalls having asked lucas "why are we doing episode four?"
and being answered that lucas wanted "to give the-audience a-feeling that the-audience'd missed something and that the-audience were coming into the-middle of this-story" or that it was "the-most-commercial-section" of the-overriding-story.
after ilm used computer-generated-effects for steven-spielberg's-1993-film jurassic-park, lucas decided that digital-technology had caught up to lucas "original vision" for star-wars.
although most-changes are minor or cosmetic in nature, many-fans and critics believe that lucas degraded the-documentary-film with the-additions.
it was discovered that in addition to the-negative-motion-picture-stocks commonly used on feature-films, lucas had also used color reversal internegative (cri) film, a-reversal-stock subsequently discontinued by kodak.
("the capture of the-spaceship"), la liberazione di leia ("leia's-liberation", the-adventure on the-death-star), messaggio-dallo-spazio ("message from space", leia giving r2-d2 the-plans), sos-nella-galassia ("sos in the-galaxy") and trappola mortale ("deadly-trap", the-falcon being captured by the-death-star).
lucas felt hurt at the-accusations.
all of the-main-films have been box-office-successes, with the-overall-box-office-revenue generated by the-star-wars-films (including the-animated-the-clone-wars) totaling over $10.1 billion, making it the second highest-grossing film series as of 2019.the-film also spawned the-star-wars-holiday-special, which debuted on cbs on november 17, 1978 and is often considered a failure; lucas himself disowned it.
lucas permitted mel-brooks's to make a-spoof of the-film under "one-incredibly-big-restriction: no-action-figures.
the-expressions "evil-empire" and "may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
another-critic, peter-biskind, later complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and spielberg returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth."
although lucas declined to provide the-united-states-library of congress with a-workable-copy of the-most-recent-film to be selected upon request (instead offering the-special-edition), a-viewable-scan was made of the-original-copyright-deposit-print.
in addition, the-quote "may the-force be with you" is ranked eighth on 100-years...
the-novelization of the-film was published as star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker in december 1976, six months before the-film was released.
like the-novelization, the-novelization contained certain-elements, such as the-scene with luke and biggs, that appeared in the-screenplay but not in the-film.
the-force awakens (2015)
the-last-jedi
episode-ix - the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
the-force awakens george-lucas's-filming-locations on movie-locations.com
actors from the-live-action-films who returned to reprise their-roles for the-show include: wood as the-b1-battle-droids and general-grievous, ahmed-best as jar-jar-binks (although binks was voiced by phil-lamarr in three-early-episodes), daniels as c-3po, burtt as r2-d2, chewbacca, and darth-vader's-breaths, daniel-logan as the-young-clone-trooper-cadets and boba-fett, liam-neeson as qui-gon-jinn, and pernilla-august as shmi-skywalker, respectively.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017) and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (2019).
daisy-ridley plays rey and
adam-driver plays kylo-ren in the-sequel-films (2015—19).
with the-release of episode-ix: the rise of skywalker in 2019, daniels is credited with the-most-acting-appearances as the-same-character, having played c-3po in all-nine-films of the skywalker saga, as well as the anthology film rogue-one, the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series in 2008 and 2003, and a guest appearance in the-first-season of rebels.
^m denotes the-character was introduced within the-main-saga.
denotes the-character was introduced within the-anthology-series.
denotes the-character was introduced within an-animated-series or the-clone-wars-film.
^ls denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-animated-series of film before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
^b denotes the-character was introduced within a-novel.
^lb denotes the-character originated within a non-canonical star wars legends novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character was introduced within a-comic-book or graphic-novel.
^lc denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-comic-book or graphic-novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character introduced within the-current-category, but also has an-extended-plot-line within another-category.
example: ^+a would denote the-character was introduced within the-current-category but has an-extended-plot-line in the-anthology-series, alternatively ^+s would denote an-extended-plot-line in the-animated-series, and ^+as would denote extended-plot-lines on both-categories.)
the-rise of skywalker from footage originally shot for star-wars:
the-force awakens, but cut from the-film.
g ewan-mcgregor's-voice can be heard saying the-newly-recorded-dialogue "these are your-final-steps, rey, rise and take these" while archive-recordings of alec-guinness saying "afraid" were cut to say "rey", both occurring when rey says "be with g-ewan-mcgregor's", and voices of past-jedi are heard.
the-force awakens
while anakin skywalker and anakin skywalker newly-assigned apprentice, ahsoka-tano, attempt to deliver jabba's-son back to jabba's-son father, obi-wan-kenobi and padmé-amidala lead separate-investigations of dooku and ziro's-plot.
at a-cartoon-network-hosted-discussion, lucas said lucas did not want the-clone-wars-film-or-television-series to look like such-movies as beowulf, because lucas wanted a-stylized-look rather than a realistic one.
lucas also felt it should not look like the-popular-pixar-movies such as the-incredibles, because lucas wanted the-film and characters to have it own unique-style.
lucas also decided to create the-animated-film and series from a-live-action-perspective, which winder said set it apart from other-cgi-films.
the-first-half of both-season three and four are diplomatic in nature, and focus on the-role of the-republic-senate in the-clone-wars, and how different-races and planets are affected by the-galaxy-wide-conflict, as well as the-republic's-efforts to help the-first-half of both-season three and four.
during season three, several-story-arcs focus on the-development of certain-characters, such as anakin, who is led to an-ancient-force-realm alongside obi-wan and ahsoka, and learns more about the-nature of the-force and his-role as the chosen one; ahsoka, who defies anakin's orders to join his-team in a-mission to break a-jedi-master out of a-separatist-prison, and must later lead her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans when her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans find her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans hunted by trandoshans; and ventress, who is betrayed by dooku, returns to her-nightsister-clan on dathomir, and tries to exact revenge on her through a-jedi-master new apprentice, savage-opress, who ultimately turns on both ventress and dooku to follow his-own-path.
rush-clovis expose the-corruption in the-intergalactic-banking-clan, which causes tensions in rush-clovis and anakin's-relationship when rush-clovis learns about rush-clovis secret mission and intervines; jar-jar-binks and mace-windu rescuing the-captured-queen of bardotta from a-cult headed by the-nightsisters'-former-leader, mother-talzin; and yoda embarking on a-journey to learn more about the-nature of the-force after he is visited by the-spirit of the-late-qui-gon-jinn.
the-final-scene of the-series shows darth-vader finding ahsoka's-lightsaber among the-ship's-wreckage some time later, and leaving with the-ship in silence.
speaking at paleyfest on march 3, 2007, lucas revealed that the-series would be episodic, and as such would not focus on anakin-skywalker's-story; with episodes dedicated to clone troopers and other-characters.
lucas revealed further-information in a-fan-interview, including a-new-character named ahsoka tano, over 100-episodes and a-possible-appearance by boba-fett.
in an-interview in the-september-24,-2007-issue of tv-guide, lucas confirmed that 39-episodes of the-series had been completed.
snyder flew out to san-francisco, california to screen several-episodes, and told lucas the-only-place snyder wanted to see the-show was on cartoon-network.
the-show began airing on their-adult-swim-block on march 14, 2009, making the-series the first cartoon network series to simultaneously air on both-cartoon-network and adult-swim.
the-show entered an-off-network-syndication in 2012, and in the-fall of that-year trifecta-entertainment & media put the-show into barter-syndication.
the-show has been taken off the-air in off-network syndication since fall 2013 due to low-costs and was not renewed for season 2 in the 2013-2014 tv season due to disney's-completed-acquisitions of lucasfilm-ltd in december 2012.
one of the-most-well-known-edits was the-removal of the-character ventress kissing a-clone after the-character had stabbed him with the-character lightsaber.
the-show was removed from netflix on april 7, 2019.
disney-infinity 3.0, released in september 2015 by disney-interactive for playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, microsoft-windows, ios and android, which stylizes select-major-characters from the-show as action-figures that become playable only via a toys-to-life nfc system.
other-characters from the-show also appear, although most of other-characters from the-show are not playable or are fought as bosses.
characters and/or locations from the-show have also appeared in the-following-star-wars-games listed below:
star-wars: galaxy of heroes, a-turn-based-rpg also released on ios and android by electronic-arts, where some-levels take place on planets depicted in the-show (such as dathomir) and a-number of collectible,-playable-characters are from the-show (such as dathomir).
force-arena, an-online-moba-game released on ios and android by netmarble, where an-august-2017-update allowed players to recruit characters, vehicles and battle-units from the-series, as well as battle on planets like felucia.
star-wars-battlefront-ii, a-video-game available on microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox-one, in which players can battle on or directly above planets like ryloth and kamino, where some-battles in the-series were fought.
sequel trilogy-characters such as captain-phasma, general-hux, and kylo-ren appear.
set after the-events of the-clone-wars, the-bad-batch follows the-titular-squadron making the-bad-batch way through the-galaxy as mercenaries in the-early-days of the-empire.
the-mandalorian (2019–present) ===
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
the-show is hosted by ahmed-best, who plays the-character of kelleran-beq, the-jedi-master-mentor of the-contestants who is joined by his-droid-companions, ad-3
sam-witwer provides the-voice of an-unknown-character of the-dark-side of the-force during the-final-challenge of each-episode.
in 2007, lucas described the-project as "one-show that will split into four-shows, focusing on different-characters. "
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
ronald-d.-moore was one of the-writers, and extensive-artwork including character, costume, and set designs were developed at skywalker-ranch under the-close-supervision of lucas and mccallum.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
the-last-jedi (2017), and concluded with episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) and concludes with episode ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-prequel-trilogy follows his-children, luke and leia, as his-children, luke and leia join the-rebel-alliance and battle-vader, palpatine and his-galactic-empire.
the-sequel-trilogy features ben-solo-a.k.a-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin—who seeks to rule the-galaxy with rey, the-granddaughter of palpatine and the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke and leia.
as lucas was outlining a-trilogy of trilogies, lucas also imagined making additional-movies unrelated to the-skywalker-saga.
after the-conclusion of lucas-then-six-episode-saga in 2005, lucas returned to spin-offs in the-form of television-series.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-character had become a fan favorite.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor-ship, the-castaway-family is split, when a-giant-creature known as the-gorax kidnaps the-parents.
at d23-expo in august 2019, it was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
during the-clone-wars, they served under the-command of the-jedi-order, but ultimately turned on they and killed they, as a-result of palpatine issuing order 66, which branded the-jedi as traitors and ordered they deaths.
the-nature of order 66 is explored in more-detail in the-clone-wars-animated-series, which reveals that palpatine had secretly arranged for the-clone-army's-creation almost a decade before the-clone-wars, and ordered that all-clones be outfitted with inhibitor-chips, which would alter all-clones mentality and force all-clones to carry out order 66 unquestionably.
during development of the empire strikes back, lucas initially conceived a-planet of clones, which is why the-clone-wars was mentioned for the-first-time in the-original-star-wars (1977)-film.
lucas intended for the-prequel-trilogy to depict the-evolution of the-galaxy's-fighting-forces, and the-clone-troopers were the-step after flawed-battle-droids.
lucas expressed a-desire for individualized-trooper-armor from the-beginning of art-development for revenge of the-sith.
following vader's-assassination of the-remaining-separatist-leaders, palpatine transforms the-republic into the-galactic-empire and the-clone-army becomes the-basis of the-clone-army.
clone-troopers are referenced in the force awakens (2015) when kylo-ren chides general-hux for the-betrayal of rogue-stormtrooper-fn-2187 and suggests that supreme-leader-snoke should consider a-clone-army.
ultimately, jedi-jedi remained unaware of this as fives was executed by a-shock-trooper-clone ordered by palpatine to conceal the-existence of the-contingency-order.
additional-sources state that fox continued fox duty on coruscant, until an-error on fox part led darth-vader to execute fox by force snapping fox neck.
thire later accompanied palpatine to mustafar to recover the-critically-wounded-darth-vader.
jedi-master-shaak-ti brings jedi-master-shaak-ti to inform palpatine about the-chips, where palpatine, being the-true-mastermind behind the-conspiracy, reveals the-chips’ true purpose to fives.
he praised the-decision of the-force awakens to explicitly move away from clone-troopers as bringing "much-needed-moral-complexity" to the-film's-conflict.
clone-troopers in the-starwars.com-databank-clone-trooper on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix –
produced by lucasfilm-and-abrams'-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-third-installment of the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
the-rise of skywalker follows rey, finn, and poe-dameron as they lead the-resistance's-final-stand against supreme-leader-kylo-ren and the-first-order, who are aided by the-return of the-deceased-galactic-emperor,-palpatine.
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
there, he finds palpatine, who reveals that he created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and lure kylo to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order—a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—and tells kylo to find and kill rey, who is continuing her-jedi-training under resistance-leader-leia-organa.
finn and poe-dameron deliver intelligence from a-spy that palpatine is on exegol; rey has learned from luke-skywalker's-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead them there.
kylo initiates a-force-bond with rey to discover her-location; kylo travels to pasaana with kylo warrior subordinates, the-knights of ren.
with the-help of lando-calrissian, rey and her-friends find the-clue—a-dagger inscribed with sith-text, which c-3po's-programming forbids him from interpreting—and the-remains of a-jedi-hunter named ochi and him ship.
rey senses kylo nearby and faces rey.
the-first-order captures the-falcon, chewbacca, and the-dagger; attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning.
rey senses chewbacca is alive, and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission to kylo's-star-destroyer.
rey recovers the-dagger and has visions of ochi killing rey parents with the-dagger.
kylo informs kylo that kylo is palpatine's-granddaughter; the-sith-lord had ordered ochi to recover rey as a-child, but kylo hid kylo on jakku to protect kylo.
rey retrieves the-wayfinder from the-remains of the-second-death-star, but she is met by kylo, who destroys the-wayfinder and duels she.
in a-dying-act, she calls to kylo through the-force, distracting kylo as rey impales kylo.
sensing she's-death, rey heals kylo and takes rey ship to exile she on ahch-to.
there, luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives she leia's-lightsaber.
rey leaves for exegol in luke's-x-wing-fighter, using the-wayfinder from kylo's-ship.
, palpatine sends one of palpatine superlaser-equipped star destroyers to destroy kijimi as a-show of force.
rey transmits her-coordinates to r2-d2, allowing the-resistance—now led by poe and finn—to follow her to exegol.
there, she confronts palpatine; palpatine demands that she kill palpatine for palpatine spirit to pass into she.
lando brings reinforcements from across the-galaxy to join the-battle.
ben overpowers the-knights of ren and joins rey, but palpatine drains the-knights of ren power to rejuvenate palpatine.
palpatine incapacitates ben and attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who lend her their-strength.
palpatine attacks palpatine with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine before dying palpatine.
ben uses the-force to revive palpatine at the-cost of ben own life; they share a-kiss before ben dies.
the-resistance defeats palpatine's-armada, while people across the-galaxy rise up against the-first-order.
the-resistance returns to the-resistance base to celebrate.
after the-celebration, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries rey and leia's-lightsabers.
a-passerby asks a-passerby name; as the-spirits of luke and leia watch, a-passerby replies, "rey-skywalker."
he became one with the-force in the-last-jedi.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-former-scavenger from jakku, member of the-resistance, and the-next-jedicailey-fleming and josefine-irrera-jackson as young rey john boyega as finn, a-member of the-resistance and a-former-stormtrooper-(fn-2187) who defected from the-first-order
oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa-naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance domhnall gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire
lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi-joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather
abrams co-wrote the-new-script with chris-terrio, though trevorrow and connolly retain story-credits.
according to terrio, the-film's-script had to include certain-narrative-beats provided by kennedy and rejwan, including the-redemption of the-character kylo-ren.
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
since the-event was held after principal-photography wrapped, abrams was thrilled that news of ian-mcdiarmid on the-set never leaked.
kathleen-kennedy said they decided to reveal palpatine's-return ahead of the-film's-release because of the-characters playing a-larger-role in the-story, having they differentiated from baby-yoda, the-character from the-mandalorian.
oscar-isaac stated that abrams was allowing more-improvised-acting than in the-previous-two-films.
despite staying silent about many-details of the-film, abrams expressed abrams hopes that fans and general-audiences would be "satisfied".
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
the-rise of skywalker" includes the-novel-resistance-reborn, set between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker, and various-other-titles.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-official-novelization of the-rise of skywalker is by rae-carson:
the novel details palpatine's-return in more-depth : palpatine transferred palpatine consciousness into a-clone-body following palpatine death in return of the-jedi, and palpatine "son", rey's-father, was a-failed-clone of palpatine.
at the-end of the-event, a-message from palpatine (the-one mentioned in the-film's-opening-crawl) was heard.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
endgame (2019) became atom-tickets'-second-best-first-day-seller of all-time behind endgame, selling more-than-twice-the-number of tickets as the-last-jedi sold in that-same-timeframe, while fandango reported fandango outsold all-previous-star-wars-films.
box-office-tracking had the-rise of skywalker grossing around $200 million in box-office-tracking opening weekend, though some-firms predicted a-debut closer to $175 million.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-website's-critical-consensus reads, "the-rise of skywalker suffers from a-frustrating-lack of imagination, but concludes this-beloved-saga with fan-focused-devotion. "
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 61-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 53 out of 100, the-rise of skywalker received "mixed-or-average-reviews".
mick-lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film "'s acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
the-reduced-role was interpreted by some-critics as a-concession to fans who disliked her-character; tran had been a-target of online-harassment following the-release of the-last-jedi.
relishmix, which tracks social-media-posts and online-presence, "noticed a-divided-reaction to skywalker online, though it leaned slightly positive".
the-rise of skywalker at starwars.com-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at imdb
the-rise of skywalker at allmovie
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at disney-a to
human-force-sensitive-characters are divided into jedi and those affiliated with the-light-side of the-force; and sith and those affiliated with the-dark-side (such as dark jedi, who are former jedi who have fallen to the-dark-side, and inquisitors, who are jedi hunters trained by darth-vader and serving the-empire).
the-resistance is a-military-organization founded and led by leia-organa, and the-successor of the-rebel-alliance.
the-resistance fought against the-first-order to defend the-new-republic and maintain peace in the-galaxy, 30 years after the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war.
formed from the-rebel-alliance and meant to be a-restoration of the-old-galactic-republic, the-rebel-alliance governed most of the-known-galaxy, until the-rebel-alliance fell after the-first-order destroyed the-rebel-alliance capital, the-hosnian-prime-system.
the-first-order is an-autocratic-military-dictatorship and the-successor of the-galactic-empire, formed from
the-first-order-main-goal is to overthrow the-new-republic and destroy the-resistance and luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi.
the-first-order is the-central-antagonistic-faction of the-sequel-trilogy.
ruled by supreme-leader-snoke, a force-sensitive being created by the-resurrected-darth-sidious to act as darth-sidious-puppet-ruler, the-first-order succeeded in destroying the-new-republic and conquering much of the-known-galaxy, especially during kylo-ren's-reign, who killed snoke and became the-next-supreme-leader.
near the-end of its-one-year-long-war with the-resistance, its allied its with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-cult of sith-loyalists led by sidious on exegol, though both were ultimately defeated by the-remains of the-resistance and the-civilians of the-galaxy, who finally gathered the-courage to rise against both-oppressors.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
the-males are known for the-males spirit of travel and are among the-first-species in the-galaxy to develop interstellar-travel, while the-females usually remain on the-males homeworld to look after the-children and govern the-place.
body is covered by a-leathery-hide, which allows kel-dors ==== to survive the-vacuum of space for a-brief-time, and kel-dors ==== wear respiratory-masks and protective-eye-goggles on planets with oxygen-rich-atmospheres, because their-body is toxic to kel-dors ====.
the-only-known-member of this-species, prosset-dibs, could use the-force to make up for the-force lack of eyesight and become familiar with the-force surroundings ====
mortis-gods ==== are believed to be the-embodiments of the-force itself: the-light-side, the-dark-side, and the-balance between the two.
known across the-galaxy as greed-driven-bankers, greed-driven-bankers ran the-intergalactic-banking-clan during the-galactic-republic-era.
