the-skywalker-saga is an-upcoming-lego-themed-action-adventure-game scheduled to be released for microsoft-windows, nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox one, and xbox-series-x/s.
the-force awakens.
an-upcoming-lego-themed-action-adventure-game scheduled to be released for microsoft-windows, nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox one, and xbox-series-x/s. will adapt all-nine-entries in the-skywalker-saga-series of films.
unlike most-lego-video-games in which players had to advance through the-story in a-linear-order, players can choose to start the-game from any of the-nine-skywalker-saga-episodes and complete-players in any-order players wish.
the-game features 300-playable-characters.
the-force awakens, the-game's-hub will not be a-single-area, such as the-mos-eisley-cantina in lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga, but a-wide-range of fully-explorable-planets filled with many-iconic-star-wars-landmarks.
planets and moons confirmed by the-developers so far to be explorable in the-hub include naboo, tatooine, coruscant, kamino, geonosis, kashyyyk, utapau, mustafar, yavin 4, hoth, dagobah, bespin, endor, jakku, takodana, d'qar, starkiller-base, ahch-to, cantonica, crait, ajan-kloss, pasaana, kijimi, kef-bir, and exegol.
the-official-artwork was revealed on 4 may 2020.disney and lucasfilm had not shared significant-details of the-rise of skywalker-skywalker with the-game-team before the-film's-release.
in the-meantime, tt-games worked on other-aspects of the-game until lucasfilm shared more-details.
the-game is developed in traveller's-tales'-new-engine, ntt (pronounced-entity).
the-skywalker-saga will use original voice acting, with the-first-actor of the-game being billy-dee-williams voicing lando-calrissian.
the following day at the-2020-gamescom-opening-night-live, the-lego-website was announced that the-game would release in q1/q2 2021 under the-description of "spring 2021" with additional-versions on the-playstation-5-and-xbox-series-x/s.
on 2-april 2021, it was announced that the-game had been delayed, with no-further-release-window specified.
the-game will be available in a-standard-edition and a-deluxe-edition.
physical-deluxe-editions will be released for nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5 and an-xbox-version which can function as both-the-xbox-one-and-xbox-series-x/s-versions depending on which-console it is played on.
wicket-wystri-warrick appeared in two non-canonical made-for-television movies, an-animated-series, and promotional-media for star-wars from 1983 to 1986.
in concluding his-original-star-wars-trilogy, george-lucas had foreseen the-decisive-battle in the-galactic-civil-war taking place between the-wookiees and the-empire; however, george-lucas considered chewbacca too skilled with technology, and wanted a-more-primitive-species than the-wookiees to defeat the-empire.
although neither-the-word ewok nor any of the ewok names are actually mentioned in return of the-jedi, a-handful of ewoks were named by the-production, mentioned in the-novelization, and first appeared in the-kenner-action-figure-line based on the-movie.
generally considered to be the most well known of the-ewoks, wicket would be given the-lead-role in almost-all-subsequent-ewok-related-media released after return of the-jedithe-jedi.
the-then-11-year-old-actor came to be involved in the-film after the-then-11-year-old-actor grandmother heard a-radio-ad calling for short-actors.
warwick-davis began work on the-film in january 1982.
the-character made the-character first appearance in the-1983-film-return of the-jedi.
in april 2014 (with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production), lucasfilm separated the-star-wars-expanded-universe (rebranded as star-wars-legends) from official-star-wars-canon.
wicket was featured in the-1984-tv-film the-ewok-adventure (set before return of the-jedi), theatrically released as caravan of courage: an-ewok-adventure.
in the-film, in the-film accompanies stranded-brother and sister-mace and cindel-towani as
in the-film and the-ewoks help find and rescue the-children's-missing-parents from the-giant-gorax.
wicket would return the following year in a-sequel, ewoks: the-battle for endor.
the-film strengthened the-bonds between wicket and cindel, with wicket rescuing wicket family and learning to speak some-galactic-basic (which wicket seems to have forgotten by the-time of return of the-jedi).
the-series would also often showcase wicket and the-ewoks'-battles with the-duloks, morag the-witch, and other-creatures on the-moon of endor.
wicket and the-ewoks are a-controversial-addition to return of the-jedi and the-star-wars-universe in general, and are seen by some to be the-weakest-link of the-original-trilogy.
bold indicates original-cast-member; all-other-cast were brought into the-series as an-ex.^-ages at the-time the-cast-member appeared in the-serieskey:
this is a-list of star-wars cast-members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series.
a-list of star-wars cast members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series is sorted by film and character, as some of the-characters were portrayed by multiple-actors.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983) and reprised the-roles in the-sequel-trilogy-films
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017) and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (2019).
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith (2005) as a-younger-obi-wan-kenobi, being top billed in the-later-two-films.
daisy-ridley plays rey and adam-driver plays kylo-ren in the-sequel-films (2015—19).
with the-release of episode-ix: the rise of skywalker in 2019, daniels is credited with the-most-acting-appearances as the-same-character, having played c-3po in all-nine-films of the skywalker saga, as well as the anthology film rogue-one, the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series in 2008 and 2003, and a guest appearance in the-first-season of rebels.
daniels also appeared in solo, but as a-different-character named "tak", as well as a character named "dannl faytonni" in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, the latter being alongside c-3po.
^m denotes the-character was introduced within the-main-saga.
^a denotes the-character was introduced within the-anthology-series.
denotes the-character was introduced within an-animated-series or the-clone-wars-film.
denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-animated-series of film before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
^b denotes the-character was introduced within a-novel.
^lb denotes the-character originated within a non-canonical star wars legends novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
the-character was introduced within a-comic-book or graphic-novel.
^lc denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-comic-book or graphic-novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character introduced within the-current-category, but also has an-extended-plot-line within another-category.
example: ^+a would denote the-character was introduced within the-current-category but has an-extended-plot-line in the-anthology-series, alternatively ^+s would denote an-extended-plot-line in the-animated-series, and ^+as would denote extended-plot-lines on both-categories.)
in 2008, an-animated-film entitled star wars: the-clone-wars was released.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
despite the-decanonization, the-television-films do retain many-major-cast-members from the-original-trilogy reprising the-television-films roles; the-holiday-special featured most of the-cast from the-original-film, while the-ewok-prequel-films featured warwick-davis reprising his-role as wicket, who originated in return of the-jedi.
the-rise of skywalker from footage originally shot for star-wars:
the-force awakens, but cut from the-rise of skywalker from footage.
g ewan-mcgregor's-voice can be heard saying the-newly-recorded-dialogue "these are your-final-steps, rey, rise and take these" while archive-recordings of alec-guinness saying "afraid" were cut to say "rey", both occurring when rey says "be with g-ewan-mcgregor's", and voices of past-jedi are heard.
attack of the clones star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith star wars episode iv:
the-empire strikes back star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi-star-wars episode vii:
the-force awakens star-wars-episode-viii:
the-rise of skywalker
the-last-jedi (2017).
a-mechanic with the-resistance, the-last-jedi (2017) befriends finn and works with finn to try to help resistance-forces escape from the-first-order.
rose is portrayed by kelly-marie-tran.
rose was created by the-last-jedi-writer and director rian-johnson after he decided a-subplot originally involving finn and poe-dameron needed a-different-dynamic.
the-last-jedi was tran's-first-film-role, and kelly-marie-tran had never watched a-star-wars-film before auditioning for the-part.
the-last-jedi: cobalt-squadron (2017), in which rose is the-protagonist along with rose sister paige, a-minor-character in the-film.
that-novel establishes that rose and paige joined the-resistance after rose and paige impoverished-home-planet was devastated by the-first-order.
the-character of rose serves as a-relatable-audience-surrogate, an-everywoman, a-positive-influence on finn, and the-personification of real-life-star-wars-fandom.
johnson originally planned for rose to be sarcastic and irritable, but the-character of rose was changed to match tran's-personality after the-character of rose was cast, becoming more positive.
tran felt a-connection between rose's-past-experiences and those of tran's own family during the-vietnam-war, and tran did research about the-conflict and the-character of rose-family's-past to help get into rose's-mindset.
the-character and tran's-portrayal received largely-positive-reactions from critics and fans alike.
some have praised tran and the-character for providing a-positive-role-model for women of color.
nevertheless, tran became the-subject of racist-and-sexist-attacks over the-internet, which led tran to permanently clear tran instagram account.
multiple-fans and celebrities have come to tran's-defense, and tran directly responded to the-attacks with an-essay for the-new-york-times.
for tran-performance in the-last-jedi, tran was nominated for the-saturn-award for best-supporting-actress.
rose returned in star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker (2019), the-final-installment in the-sequel-trilogy, in which rose has risen in the-ranks of the-resistance and has taken on a-greater-leadership-role.
however, rose-role in the-film was far smaller than in the-last-jedi, which became a-major-point of criticism among critics and fans alike.
although rose-tico was first conceived for the-film star-wars:
the-last-jedi (2017), the-last-jedi (2017)-backstory is established in the middle-grade novel star-wars:
the last jedi: cobalt-squadron (2017), by elizabeth-wein released on december 15, 2017, and cobalt-squadron is set just before and during the-events of star-wars:
the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in star-wars sequel trilogy.
rose is the-primary-protagonist of the-novel along with rose older sister, paige-tico, who was portrayed by veronica-ngo during a-brief-appearance in the-final-film.
although parents are not featured as characters in the-novel, the-reference-book star-wars: the-last-jedi : the-visual-dictionary establishes that the-tico-sisters had a-close-relationship with the-tico-sisters parents, hue and thanya, who raised the-tico-sisters to have a-strong-sense of right and wrong.
rose and paige were raised on the-planet hays-minor, the-impoverished-mining-planet in the-otomok-star-system far beyond the-policing-efforts of the-new-republic-government.
the-first-order used the-planet to test the-first-order weapons and kidnap children to indoctrinate as stormtroopers.
as a-result, rose developed a-hatred of the-first-order starting in her-early-childhood.
the-tico-sisters join the-resistance, a-paramilitary-organization led by general leia organa fighting against the-first-order.
the two work together on a-bomber-spacecraft called the cobalt hammer, where paige is a-gunner and rose was a-mechanical-engineer.
despite her-lack of formal-training, rose receives the-post due to her-extensive-mechanical-knowledge.
rose and paige each wear matching-medallions resembling the-insignia of rose and paige each-home-system of otomok.
at the-beginning of cobalt-squadron, rose and paige are on a-mission to testing new-stealth-technology when at the-beginning of cobalt-squadron, rose and paige encounter and rescue a-fugitive fleeing from first-order-tie-fighters.
at the-beginning of cobalt-squadron, rose and paige later learn the-fugitives were from a-planet in the-atterra-system which, like rose and paige's home planet, has been devastated by the-first-order.
leia authorizes a-team of bombers, including rose and paige aboard the-cobalt-hammer, to gather reconnaissance in the-atterra-system and run supplies to the-citizens there.
leia also asks rose to devise a-technique to allow the-bombers to escape first-order-detection, leading leia to invent a-device called a "baffler", which reduces the-ship's-ion-emissions and makes its-energy-signature harder to detect, thus making the-bombers more difficult for enemy-sensors to locate.
though the-bombers sustain casualties from first-order-defenders, rose and the-team successfully deliver the-supplies, and then escape.
rose and paige prepare to assist with the-evacuation of the-resistance-base on the-planet-d’qar, which leads directly into the-events in the-first-scene of star-wars: the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi ===
rose mourns paige-tico-sister's-death aboard the-mc85-star-cruiser-raddus, a-resistance-mon-calamari-cruiser.
after rose stops him by stunning him with an-electro-shock-prod, finn tells paige-tico the-first-order had found a-way to track the-raddus through hyperspace.
with help from resistance-droid bb-8, rose and finn set off on an-unauthorized-mission to the-casino-city of canto-bight to find a-master-codebreaker to assist rose and finn.
although finn is impressed by the-superficial-beauty and debauchery of canto-bight, rose reveals to finn the-dark-underpinnings of the-lavish-casino-city, pointing out the-fortunes of the-lavish-casino-city's rich inhabitants is supported by child-slavery, weapons dealing, and other-immoral-activities that result in the-suffering of others.
rose-and-finn-finn are arrested for rose-and-finn-illegal-entry into canto-bight, and in prison-rose and finn met an-unnamed-slicer, who along with bb-8 helps rose and finn escape and agrees to assist rose and finn in disabling the-supremacy's-tracking-device.
; rose gives one of the-enslaved-children there paige's-rebel-alliance-ring to inspire his-trust.
rose and the-others return to the-supremacy and infiltrate the-ship disguised as first-order-officers, but are captured by general-hux and captain-phasma before rose and the-others can disable the-tracking-device.
the-slicer betrays rose and finn, informing the-first-order of rose and the-others plan and providing information about the-resistance in exchange for the-slicer release and a-monetary-reward.
captain-phasma attempts to execute rose and finn, but bb-8 helps them escape and fight them way to freedom, killing captain-phasma in the-process.
meanwhile, the-surviving-resistance-forces escape to an-old-rebel-alliance-base on the-nearby-planet-crait; according to the-last-jedi-novelization, the-baffler-technology developed by rose helps the-resistance-ships in the-resistance-ships escape.
along with finn and poe, rose pilot a-ski-speeder in a-defensive-battle against first-order-forces, during which they try to destroy a-superlaser-siege-cannon before a-superlaser-siege-cannon can destroy the-door to the-base.
finn attempts a-hopeless-suicide-attack against a-superlaser-siege-cannon, but rose saves finn life by crashing her-speeder into finn, knocking finn off course and seriously injuring her in the-process.
rose tells finn the only way they will defeat the-first-order is by fighting for what they love, rather than fighting what they hate and then falls unconscious.
finn brings rose back to the-base, and finn unconscious body is taken aboard the-millennium-falcon along with the-other-resistance-survivors.
rose receives medical-attention as they flee crait and escape from the-first-order.
the-rise of skywalker ===
rose returns in a-smaller-role in the-rise of skywalker, the-final-film of the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
set about one year after the-events of the-last-jedi, rose has risen in the-ranks of the-resistance and has taken on a-greater-leadership-role, serving as head of the-organization's-engineering-corps.
when rey, finn, poe-dameron, chewbacca, c-3po, and bb-8 embark on a-mission to help track down the-revived-palpatine, finn invites rose to come along.
she later participates in the-climactic-battle-scene at the-end of the-film, when the-resistance confronts the-sith-eternal's-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, the-final-order, at the-planet of exegol.
rose communicates with finn-and-finn-ally-jannah during the-battle, and expresses concern for finn and his-ally jannah-safety as the-fighting intensifies.
she survives the-battle and is present with the-resistance when the-resistance celebrate the-resistance victory later on ajan-kloss.
rose knows" portrays rose as an-extremely-dedicated-mechanic who, after first becoming stationed on the-raddus just prior to the-events of the-last-jedi, continues working well after rose shift ends to study the-ship's-manuals and learn more about the-vessel.
the-comic also included the-first-meeting of rose-and-resistance-pilot and officer-poe-dameron, to whom rose responded with an-excitement similar to that when rose met finn in the-last-jedi.
rose obtains from
rose-research of the-raddus ultimately helps rose in assisting poe when poe squadron is attacked by first-order-tie-fighters.
rose and paige-tico were the-protagonists of the-final-issue of star-wars: forces of destiny, a-five-issue-comic-book-miniseries based on an-animated-web-series of the-same-name.
the-issue, entitled "rose & paige", was released on january 31, 2018, and was set before the-events of the force awakens, when the-resistance was still based on d'qar.
general-leia-organa is seeking methods to collect natural-resources, and rose conceives an-idea to build rechargeable-vehicles form junk-parts.
lacking confidence, rose is reluctant to volunteer an-idea to build rechargeable-vehicles form junk-parts, but paige insists that paige do so.
despite some-opposition from the-base's-engineers, paige receives an-idea to build rechargeable-vehicles form junk-parts warmly, and rose gets two-vehicles working with support from paige and leia.
paige later becomes lost in the-d'qar-jungles during a-scouting-mission, and rose helps find and rescue paige.
rose was the-protagonist of one of four-announced-installments in age of resistance, a-comic-book-miniseries that chronicled different-characters and time-periods from the-star-wars-chronology.
the-issue, entitled age of resistance: rose, was released in september 2019, and focused on rose's relationship with paige-sister-paige during the-first-order's-invasion of hays-minor.
this includes rose and paige working covertly to sabotage the-first-order on the-planet, as well as them fleeing hays-minor to join resistance, at the-insistence of them parents.
it also includes a-scene in-which-rose and paige, upon learning of the-destruction of hays-minor, seek to take a-ship and fly back to the-planet for a-suicidal-revenge-attack against first-order, but are stopped by leia and urged to stay and serve the-resistance instead.
rose appeared in "shuttle-shock", a second season episode of the-star-wars: forces of destiny animated web series, created by lucasfilm-animation and released through disney's-youtube-channel.
the-series depicted two--or-three-minute-stories from various-points in the-star-wars-chronology. "
their-space-shuttle is attacked by huge-jellyfish-like-creatures, and rose repairs a shorted out bb-8 while finn attempts to fly to safety.
in early 2018, rose was added as a-playable-character in the-mobile-collectible-rpg-game
galaxy of heroes-shock-prod, just as star-wars: galaxy of heroes did to finn in the-last-jedi.
allegiance, the-first-issue of which was released on october 9, 2019.
written by ethan-sacks and illustrated by luke-ross and lee-loughridge, allegiance is set shortly after the-last-jedi, and in the-story leia asks rose to accompany leia on a-mission to the-planet-mon-cala to help secure allies for the-resistance.
when leia-and-leia-party are threatened by potential-enemies, rose is quickly prepared to help defend leia and her-party, though leia attempts to defuse any-hostilities.
rose ends up arrested along with rey, chewbacca, and c-3po after chewbacca, and c-3po get into a-dispute with protestors from the-quarren-species.
when rey is coerced into a-duel with a-massive-combat-droid, rose and chewbacca interfere in the-fight and help rey defeat the-fight.
in the-final-issue of the-series, rose works with rey to track down a-terrorist who attacked the-group due to opposition to mon-cala allying the-group with the-resistance.
rose also appeared in lego-star-wars: all-stars, a-series of lego-star-wars animated short-films set in different-time-periods of the-star-wars-chronology.
a-series of lego-star-wars launched on october 29, 2018, with tran once again providing the-voice of rose.
a-profile about rose-tico was featured in star-wars: women of the-galaxy, a-book by amy-ratcliffe highlighting 75-female-characters from the star-wars franchise.
the-book was released on october 30, 2018.in the weeks approaching the-release of the-rise of skywalker, rose was featured in the-novels star-wars: spark of the-resistance and lego star-wars: resistance-reborn, both of which were released as part of a-multimedia-project called "journey to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker".
spark of the-resistance, a-junior-novel by justina-ireland released on october 4, 2019, tells the-story of rose, rey, poe, and bb-8 as poe, and bb-8 travel to an-isolated-planet called minfar to investigate a-distress-signal.
there poe, and bb-8 discover the-first-order has invaded an-isolated-planet called minfar and threatened the-indigenous-population in an-attempt to find secret-laboratories and discover a-legendary-weapon called the echo horn, which has the-ability to control the-minds of the-first-order victims.
rose and the-others successfully repel the-first-order and keep the-weapon out of the-others hands.
the-novel features illustrations of rose and the-other-characters by artist-phil-noto.
rose has a-smaller-part of in resistance-reborn, a-novel by rebecca-roanhorse released on november 5, 2019, which details the-efforts by general-leia-organa and the-other-resistance-members to rebuild the-other-resistance-members forces immediately following the-defeats sustained in the-last-jedi.
in the-novel, rose has recovered quickly from the-injuries rose suffered in the-last-jedi and is actively working to help restore the-resistance.
the-book also features a-scene in which poe inquires as to whether finn has romantic-interests in rose, to which finn response that although they shared "a-moment" during they kiss on crait, they are only-friends.
with a-methodical,-technical-mind, rose lacked formal-training in mechanical-engineering and rose knowledge was largely self-taught, which made rose resourceful, inventive, and prone to outside-the-box thinking.
for example, most-characters in the-last-jedi reacted with shock that the-first-order was tracking the-resistance through hyperspace because it was believed to be impossible, but rose deduced how it is being done and helped develop a-solution.
rose was passionate, loyal, and committed, with a-great-deal of enthusiasm and intelligence, and a-strong-moral-code.
idealistic and energetic, rose maintained a-sense of optimism despite rose difficult past and the-challenge the-resistance faces against the-first-order.
rose could be tough, stubborn, and blunt, as well as intensely focused and determined.
but rose was also kind, and understood the-value of protecting what is good, rather than just fighting what is bad.
rose also had a-great-deal of fascination with the-galaxy around rose, and a-sense of awe about the-resistance and the-heroes that serve it.
rose was hard-working, resilient, and brave, though the-daily-telegraph noted rose courage is subtle and not flashy "in a-dashing,-daring-poe-dameron-style-way".
rose strongly believed in the-cause of the-resistance, to-which--rose dedicated rose-life, and rose placed that cause ahead of all-things, including rose.
in this-way rose differed from finn at the-start of the-last-jedi, who was more concerned about finn and finn friends than with helping the-resistance or stopping the-first-order.
however, the-example rose set for finn inspired finn, leading finn to capture some of rose idealism and place the-mission of the-resistance ahead of finn.
the-last-jedi-writer and director-rian-johnson has described rose as the-"angel on finn's-shoulder", serving as the-last-jedi-writer and director-rian-johnson conscience and trying to steer
rose's-willingness without hesitation to give rose precious-medallion to the-unnamed-slicer in exchange for
however, rose could also be rebellious, and was willing to disobey orders to do what rose thinks is right, as shown by rose willingness to work with finn and poe on a-secret-plan to help the-resistance in the-last-jedi.
rose was very close with rose family, and a-strong-sense of right and wrong was instilled in rose by rose late-parents and paige.
rose particularly looked up to paige, and the two had an-extremely-strong-emotional-connection; according to the-cobalt-squadron-novel, the two had never been apart for more-than-a-couple of days, and more-than-a-couple of days shared "a-bond that would have been extraordinary even between twins".
prior to the-events of the-last-jedi, rose was more shy and self-conscious, but paige had faith in rose's abilities and encouraged paige even when rose herself lacked confidence.
this was particularly illustrated in the-"rose-&-paige"-issue of the-star-wars: forces of destiny comic book, during which rose hesitated to share an-idea with general-leia-organa until paige pushed paige to do so.
in writing about rose's-past in forces of destiny and the-star-wars-adventures-comic-books, writer-delilah-s.-dawson said writer-delilah-s.-dawson believed the-example paige set for rose "
when paige died, rose felt a-void in paige own identity, according to tran, but ultimately paige's love for rose helped paige become more confident and carry on after paige sister was gone.
paige's-death also drove rose that much harder to fight against the-first-order, so her-sister's-death would not be in vain.
rose's-rage toward the-first-order was informed not only by paige's-death, but also because paige personally witnessed the-brutality and devastation it unleashed on paige home planet of hays-minor.
as a-result, her-dedication to the-resistance was not tied to a-noble,-abstract-idea of heroism, but a-firsthand-knowledge of the-threat they are fighting, which gave her a-deeper-understanding of the-war than even some of the-soldiers around her.
rose's-feelings occasionally manifested in anger, such as her-reaction when her discovered finn attempting to flee the-raddus, or when her said of canto-bight that her wished her could "put (her)
however, rose was also very empathetic, as demonstrated by the-kindness her showed the-children on canto-bight, and the way her rescued finn at the-end of the-last-jedi.
rose also served the-role of everywoman in the-last-jedi.
both-johnson and tran have described rose as an-unlikely-hero who preferred to work in the-background, but was pulled into a-prominent-position in the-conflict by the-circumstances around rose.
rose was a-very-low-ranking-member of the-resistance, and rose demonstrated that every-position matters and anyone, no matter every-position matters and anyone status or position, can make a-difference.
rose also illustrated how war affects the-average-person.
despite her-talents and abilities, rose did not consider her a hero, nor was her seeking to become one.
tran said of the-character: "it's such-a-huge-deal to tran, the-idea that her's not necessarily special in the-way that we have defined special before in other-movies, or in other-stories. "
rose has also been described as the-personification of real-life-star-wars-fandom, with tran her saying: "i definitely believe that rose embodies the-idea of a-fan being pulled into something that’s kind of crazy.
this was particularly illustrated in rose's-excitement about meeting finn for the-first-time, during which her-trips over her-words, excitedly calling him "the finn", and nervously said "doing talking-[sic] with resistance-heroes isn't really my forte".
rose-tico was created by rian-johnson for the-film star-wars:
the-last-jedi (2017), which rian-johnson wrote and directed.
while working on the-script, rian-johnson originally had the-characters poe-dameron and finn go to canto-bight together, but rian-johnson decided having a-female-character accompany finn would make for a more interesting dynamic because otherwise, "it was just-these-two-dudes on an-adventure".
rian-johnson said in the-original-versions of the-script with poe and finn together, poe and finn dialogue could have been interchangeable and there was no-conflict between poe and finn.
this led rian-johnson to conceive the-rose-tico-character, who, in rian-johnson's words, could "actually challenge [finn] and push rian-johnson and contrast with rian-johnson was where rose came
details about the-character were first discussed at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in orlando, florida, on april 14, 2017.
johnson described rose-tico as the-"biggest-new-part in the-movie", and the-character introduced in the-film.
rose has the-most-screen-time of any-new-character introduced in the-last-jedi.
the-name rose was originally used for the-character maz-kanata during the-pre-production of star-wars:
the-force awakens.
the-name rose is a-tribute to rose gilbert, the-late-high-school-english-teacher who instructed both the
a-handful of scenes involving rose in the original the-last-jedi-scripts were either eliminated or revised in later-drafts.
for example, in the-original-script, finn was a-gunner along with paige during paige bombing run, and finn witnessed paige death.
additionally, the-master-codebreaker-rose and finn sought was originally planned to be an-insectoid-warlord who involved rose and finn in an-effort to rob a-rival.
this led to an-extended-sequence of finn, rose, and the-codebreaker's-crew climbing atop the-casino-rooftop during an-attempted-robbery, which ended with finn and rose getting arrested.
kelly-marie-tran believed that ultimately helped kelly-marie-tran in kelly-marie-tran audition, because kelly-marie-tran didn't have pre-established-expectations or attempt to model rose on characters from the-previous-films.
nevertheless, tran wore the-tie again during tran first callback.
tran went through five-intense-rounds of auditions over five-months between the-summer and fall of 2015, with one-month spanning between each-audition.
johnson observed tran during tran second audition, and immediately liked tran; johnson said watching tran felt like seeing the-character johnson pictured in johnson mind during the-writing-process.
during one of the-auditions, tran did one-on-one reads alongside john-boyega, the-actor who portrays finn, to determine whether the-two-actors had chemistry and worked well together.
boyega said boyega was clear from the-start of their-readings together that tran was the-best-actress for the-part.
the-final-audition took place in london with full-hair, makeup, and costuming.
three weeks later, in november 2015, johnson met with tran and offered tran the-role.
johnson said tran had an-oddball-nature and genuine-sweetness to tran, and johnson knew audiences would want tran character to succeed.
boyega felt tran's-background in improv-comedy and numerous-internet-videos ultimately helped tran bring to the-role a-light-tone necessary for the-last-jedi, despite the-seriousness of the-narrative.
the-casting of tran was first announced on the-official-star-wars-website on february 15, 2016, which described the-actress as a-"talented-newcomer".
tran discussed the-character for the-first-time publicly at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in orlando, where tran said: "tran's part of the-resistance, and tran works in maintenance.
in later-interviews, tran said tran hopes the-character will show viewers that "even if you are not born a-princess or into a-position of privilege, if you are a-background-player and aren't a-frontrunner like a-star-pilot, you can still make a-difference".
the-last-jedi was tran's-first-film-role.
a-vietnamese-american said a-vietnamese-american believes it was important to have a-strong-female-asian-american-character in star-wars because a-vietnamese-american knows from a-vietnamese-american own childhood how important it is for young-people to see characters like young-people represented in film, television, and books.
that means a-lot to tran
tran said tran felt it was a-major-responsibility to portray someone viewers would look up to, and tran wanted to do the-character-justice.
in may 2017, tran posed as rose on the-cover of vanity-fair, becoming the-first-asian-american-cover to appear on the-magazine's-cover.
in december 2017, disney arranged for tran to embark on a-press-tour in singapore and tran parents’ home country of vietnam to publicize the-last-jedi.
the-costume-design for rose-tico was being developed for the-last-jedi before the-actress was cast.
the-original-script called for rose to wear a-beautiful-gown during the-canto-bight-scenes, so the-crew would blend in with the-other-wealthy-clientele.
this-idea was ultimately abandoned, and this-idea was decided that rose would wear the-coverall-costume throughout the-entire-canto-bight-subplot, which had the-effect of making rose and finn
rose is a-no-nonsense-character.
rose just plugs along and
tran wore a-form-fitting-first-order-uniform as a-disguise during rose-the-last-jedi-scenes with finn and the-unnamed-slicer aboard the-supremacy.
the-original-script called for the-medallions worn by rose and paige to be a-two-part-pendant that could be placed together to form a-single-image.
this was later changed so that both-rose and paige had identical-medallions, but concept-artist-matthew-savage said rose and paige still have a-yin-and-yang-quality about rose and paige.
in january 2016, tran moved to london to begin filming.
tran was bound by confidentiality-agreements not to discuss the-character and could not tell anyone that tran was working on a-star-wars-film, even tran own family.
tran told she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family tran was filming an-independent-movie in canada; tran sent she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family-photos of canada that tran downloaded from google, and purchased canadian-maple-syrup for she was working on a-star-wars-film, even-her-own-family as a-gift to make the-ruse more convincing.
to prevent secrets about the-film from leaking during filming, tran and the-other-actors were driven around the-sets in cars with tinted-windows, and made to wear black-robes so people would not recognize people.
on her-first-day on the-last-jedi-set, tran saw anthony-daniels performing as c-3po and hugged him, which her called "the best experience ever".
tran said: "you have to find a-way to just do the-work and kind of block everything (else) out.
tran was not used to living without tran established support-system, and often felt scared and lonely during filming, occasionally crying because tran wished tran friends could be part of the-experience it.
to combat the-isolation, tran joined an-improvisational-theatre-class in london, kept journals, and sought companionship from tran fellow cast members, especially-john-boyega.
tran shared more-scenes with john-boyega than any-other-cast-member, and tran said it was very easy to work with tran, and that tran learned a-lot from tran.
tran said of john-boyega: "john is someone who i feel like i immediately was able to mesh with.
tran said director-rian-johnson made the-actress feel very comfortable on the-set and collaborated with the-actress, seeking the-actress thoughts and suggestions about the-character.
in early-versions of the-script, tran said rose-tico was "more sarcastic and grumpy", and johnson compared rose-tico to the-winnie-the-pooh-character-eeyore.
however, once tran was cast, the-character's-personality gradually changed to match that of the-actress herself.
in the-original-script, rose was immediately suspicious of finn, but because of the-way the-character had changed to match tran's-personality, johnson realized she should admire finn initially and be excited to meet johnson.
it was one of the-few-scenes in the-last-jedi that johnson rewrote during the-production.
tran said of developing the-character: "
sometimes i think kelly informed rose, and sometimes i think rose informed me.
kelly's always going to be part of tran
tran called filming the-last-jedi "the ultimate acting class".
tran was particularly excited to work with laura-dern, of whom tran was a-strong-admirer, and carrie-fisher, who inspired tran with tran confidence and honesty.
tran said tran felt fisher was indirectly protecting tran just by virtue of tran strong personality.
tran and boyega were also particularly impressed by benicio-del-toro, who plays the-unnamed-slicer that tran and boyega share multiple-scenes with; tran said tran and boyega were obsessed with del-toro, adding: "every time tran did anything, tran and boyega would just turn to each other and say, 'tran's such a legend!"
tran enjoyed playing the-augmented-reality-mobile-game pokémon go on the-set of the-last-jedi, and got others on the-cast and crew to play it as well, including johnson and boyega.
tran shared a-physical-trainer with daisy-ridley, the-actress who played rey, and had to follow a-difficult-fitness-regimen, becoming so strong
tran learned how to push a-car.
tran was so impressed with the-work that went into making the-last-jedi that tran often visited the-set on days when tran wasn't performing tran, visiting the-art, creature, production-design, and costume departments.
johnson was nervous about filming the-scene immediately after rose and finn first met, in which rose was dragging a stunned finn away on a-cart, because the-dialogue involved a-great-deal of exposition
johnson credited the-acting-abilities of tran and boyega for making it work.
the-scenes in which rose and finn escaped from canto-bight by riding giant-creatures were shot during the-final-two-weeks of filming.
the-sequence was created by visual-effects-company-industrial-light & magic, who planned out the-animation, then created a-motion-base that tran and boyega rode atop.
a-motion-base that tran and boyega rode atop were programmed to move at a-speed and route that matched the-planned-animation.
a-handful of scenes involving rose were filmed, but cut from the-final-version of the-last-jedi.
in one, after rose and finn were captured on the-supremacy, general-hux mocked rose after seeing general-hux medallion, and general-hux responds by biting general-hux finger.
in another-deleted-scene, after escaping from the-supremacy on a-shuttle, rose and finn discussed rose and finn next destination and ultimately decided to rejoin the-resistance-forces on crait.
dialogue that involved rose chastising finn for being too emotionally attached to rey was also cut from the-film.
to understand the-mindset of rose's-traumatic-past-experiences with war, tran researched tran own family's experiences during the-vietnam-war; tran parents had to flee the-country during the-conflict, and tran had other-relatives who tried to escape at the-time but could not.
tran also listened to podcasts about the-vietnam-war to learn more about the-conflict.
tran felt a-connection between rose's-past-experiences and those of tran's own family, particularly-the-fact that both suffered losses and experienced poverty due to war.
tran said, "a-lot of the-things (rose) is dealing with are things that i already had inside tran".
tran also listened to podcasts and read books about engineers and how engineers think, which helped tran better understand tico's-role as a-mechanic-and-maintenance-worker.
tran did not share any-actual-screen-time with veronica-ngo, who played rose's-sister paige, but veronica-ngo, who played rose's-sister paige spent time together off-camera and would go to restaurants together and regularly send text-messages to each other.
tran felt a-connection with ngo, who is from vietnam like tran's family, and tran helped tran with taped-auditions for roles ngo was seeking.
tran felt the-moment rose kissed finn was one of tran character's bravest moments:
to put yourself out there romantically, for tran that’s very hard.
arguably-most-important-and-famous-line in the-last-jedi was delivered to finn at the-end of the-film: "
after filming wrapped on the-last-jedi, tran spent a year away from acting, in part to enjoy tran last few months of anonymity before tran role in star-wars became widely known.
tran worked on an-endangered-wildlife-reserve in south-africa, where there was no-electricity, running-water, or internet-access.
nobody there knew tran was an-actress until rose-tico-toys started coming out.
tran later went to vietnam to work with orphans, and brought tran parents back to her-parents-home-country for the-first-time since her-parents fled during the vietnam war 40 years earlier.
the-first-rose-tico-action-figures were revealed by hasbro on september 1, 2017, as part of a-star-wars-merchandising-event called "force friday".
a-funko-pop-figurine of the-character was released the same day, as was a-lego-star-wars set of the-resistance-transport-pod-vehicle that included lego-figurines of rose, finn, and bb-8.
the-novelization of star-wars: the-last-jedi, written by jason-fry, includes a-moment between rose and paige-tico that was not featured in the-film, during which rose says goodbye to paige before the latter departed for the-bombing-mission that ultimately kills paige.
the-audiobook was released on december 15, 2017, the-same-day as the-novel and the-last-jedi-film.
comic-book-writer-delilah-s.-dawson wrote rose-tico's-stories for both-the-"rose-&-paige"-issue of star-wars: forces of destiny comic book series, and the "rose knows" story in the star-wars adventures comic book series.
rose was illustrated by nicoletta-baldari in forces of destiny, with covers portraying the-two-title-characters by baldari, penciller-elsa-charretier and colorist-matt-wilson.
before writing the-stories, dawson read the-script for the-last-jedi in november 2016, as well as an-early-draft of the-cobalt-squadron-novel.
this gave her an-understanding of the-personalities and speech-patterns of rose and paige-tico for her-own-writing.
her said of rose and paige: " to her,-the-characters’re-the-heart of what the-resistance means: ordinary-people willing to make sacrifices in the-hopes that other-people and planets won’t have to suffer.
" baldari said baldari illustrations of rose and paige was partially inspired by that of anna and elsa, sister characters from the-disney-animated-film frozen (2013), on which baladri also worked.
age of resistance: rose-tico was written by tom-taylor, who specifically requested to write an-issue about rose because baldari was his-son's-favorite-character.
the-character of rose-tico and performance by kelly-marie-tran has received a-largely-positive-reception from critics but mixed-reviews from fans, with several-commentators calling kelly-marie-tran the breakout star of the-last-jedi.
michael-sragow of film comment praised kelly-marie-tran's-energetic-and-emotional-performance, which michael-sragow of film comment said made rose the most rousing figure among the-film's-heroes.
sragow said the-character "blows into the-movie with a-fan's-enthusiasm, a can-do spirit, and bracing undercurrents of proletarian-rebellion".
variety's-meredith-woerner wrote: "stealing the-spotlight from the force awakens favorites, tran injected the-galaxy far, far away with a-dose of pure-enthusiasm."
likewise, matthew-aguilar of comicbooks.com said tran already developed a-large-fanbase among star-wars-fans even before the-film was released.
quad-city-times-writer-linda-cook called rose one of quad-city-times-writer-linda-cook favorite new star wars characters, praising quad-city-times-writer-linda-cook compelling background and relationship with finn.
pete-hammond of deadline-hollywood called rose a great new character and welcome addition to the-franchise.
the-week-culture-critic-lili-loofbourow called rose tico "one of my-favorite-additions to the-franchise".
the-daily-herald included tran's-performance as rose-tico in the-daily-herald list of 10-great-screen-performers from 2017, with writer-sean-strangland calling the-character "a-delight".
richard-trenholm of cnet called rose delightful to watch, praising richard-trenholm of cnet chemistry with finn and saying richard-trenholm of cnet represented the-"indomitable-moral-spirit of star-wars with richard-trenholm of cnet clear-eyed determination to do the-right-thing".
david-sims of the-atlantic called rose a "wonderfully sneaky" character because david-sims of the-atlantic initially appears to be a-sidekick for finn, but instead becomes an-equal-partner who teaches finn important lessons.
john-w.-allman of creative-loafing called rose a strong addition with a-solid-backstory, who elevated and brought a-renewed-focus to finn's-character.
nerdist-writer-rosie-knight called rose a much-needed addition to the-star-wars-universe, and lindsey romain, also of nerdist, said nerdist-writer-rosie-knight "represents hope and positivity in a-fandom that can often feel overwhelmingly negative".
dominic-griffin of spectrum-culture wrote that rose "emerges as a-compelling-lead equal to the-others in emotional-resonance".
pam-powell of the-san-francisco-daily-journal said rose shines with personality, with a-wonderful-sense of humor and timing, and that pam-powell of the-san-francisco-daily-journal pleasantly anticipated seeing pam-powell of the-san-francisco-daily-journal with each-scene.
molly-templeton called rose an excellent addition to the-star-wars-universe.
kirk-baird of the-blade said tran delivered an-"honestly-sweet-performance".
some-critics who disliked the-last-jedi were still complimentary toward aspects of rose-tico's-character or tran's-performance.
salon-writer-matthew-rozsa, who disliked the-film and particularly criticized the-canto-bight-sequence, nevertheless noted: "the-chemistry between finn and rose makes finn and rose easily the-most-likable-and-sympathetic-characters in the-film".
similarly, ryan-syrek of the-reader felt the-first-half of the-last-jedi was clunky and the subplot involving finn-and-rose's-efforts to shut down the-tracking-device worked poorly, but ryan-syrek of the-reader said the-character-dynamics between the two were strong and described rose ryan-syrek of the-reader favorite character from the-new-trilogy.
tor.com-writer-emmet-asher-perrin said the-character "deserves more-attention than the-film is capable of giving kelly-marie-tran".
several-critics responded negatively to the-canto-bight-subplot with rose and finn, calling it an unnecessary and distracting element of the-film that contributed little to the-overall-storyline.
gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar called rose a welcome addition overall, but said gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar "could have benefited from additional-depth".
cinevue-writer-christopher-machell described the-character as woefully underwritten.
kyle-pinion of the-beat called the-character "basically-a-non-entity", saying gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar "never seems to grow beyond 'earnest'" and gulf-news-writer-shyama-krishna-kumar relationship with finn felt rushed.
armond-white of the-national-review calls the-relationship between finn and rose a-politically-correct-"multi-culti-play".
the-new-york-observer-writer felt finn and rose had bad-chemistry and called finn and rose storyline a "misguided side-quest".
despite the-positive-reviews, tran became the-subject of racist-and-sexist-attacks over the-internet, including insults about tran ethnicity and weight, which began immediately after tran casting was announced.
in a-march-2018-interview, tran said tran had been receiving "really-acidic,-misogynistic,-racist-comments" regarding tran role as rose-tico.
tran has been the-target of racist-trolling on twitter.
rose-tico's-entry on wookieepedia, an-online-encyclopedia about the-star-wars-universe, was edited to include racist-and-vulgar-comments in december 2017, which drew national-media-attention.
the-character of rose-tico was defended by the-page.
without the-detour to canto-bight, finn wouldn't have grown past only caring about finn and finn immediate circle of friends.
and rose wouldn't have discovered her-own-ability to be the-type of hero her idolized.
in june 2018, tran deleted all of her-instagram-posts in response to online-harassment, and replaced the-account-bio with, "afraid, but doing it anyway.
esquire-writer-dom-nero called the-bullying of tran "another example of the-rising-current of hatred and discrimination in our-culture", and said it came from a-"very-vocal-minority of star-wars-fans who do not agree with the-progressive-ideals set forth in the-refreshingly-inclusive,-emotionally-nuanced-film".
a-study released in october 2018 found that up-to-51% of the-attacks tran received on social-media may have come from russian-bots instead of actual-star-wars-fans.
several-cast-and-crew-members of the-last-jedi condemned the-attacks tran received on social-media and spoke out in defense of tran, including rian-johnson, john-boyega, and actors-domhnall-gleeson, and mark-hamill, the last of whom tweeted a-picture of johnson with tran and wrote the-caption, "what's not to love?
claudia-gray, an-author who had written several-star-wars-books, said the-attacks against tran ran counter to the-principles of the-franchise, and people who did not understand that "were never a-star-wars-fan to begin with".
other-celebrities have expressed support for tran as well, including josh-gad, kumail-nanjiani, gabrielle-union, elijah-wood, and edgar-wright.
stephen-colbert condemned tran's-attackers during a-segment on the-late-show with stephen-colbert, during which stephen-colbert presented a-mock-trailer for the-last-jedi specifically designed to make "racist,-misogynist-nerds" angry.
in less-than-one-day, more-than-20,000-fans retweeted a-message of support for tran from a-fan on twitter that sought to "drown out the-manbabies".
she was also shown support at the-2018-san-diego-comic-con during a-"rally for rose", during which fans appeared in cosplay-attire as rose tico or wore "rose for hope"-t-shirts.
in response to the-harassment, tran wrote an-essay for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
tran wrote that the-attacks reinforced microaggressions tran had long faced as a-vietnamese-american, and which sought to reinforce a-narrative that asians should be marginalized and treated only as minor-characters, both in stories and in real-life.
tran said tran even began to believe the-negative-statements made about tran, and that they sent tran down "a-spiral of self-hate, into the-darkest-recesses of my-mind, places where i tore tran apart,
tran later said the-new-york-times-essay was difficult to write, but also "probably one of the-proudest-moments of [tran] career thus far".
when tran appeared during a-panel about the-rise of skywalker at the-star-wars-celebration in chicago on april 12, 2019, tran received a-swell of support from the-crowd, who chanted tran name and gave tran a-standing-ovation, causing the-actress to tear up onstage.
the-rise of skywalker ===
several-examples of shirts, trading-cards, and other-memorabilia surfaced in which rose was not only excluded, but was originally included and later removed.
a-set of individual-the-rise of skywalker-character-posters released on november 20 initially did not include rose, but a-poster featuring her was released the next day.
following the-release of the-rise of skywalker, rose's-minor-role in the-film became a-major-point of criticism among fans and reviewers alike.
rose received one-minute and sixteen seconds of screen-time in the-142-minute-film, much shorter than the-ten-minutes and
fifty-three seconds tran received in the-last-jedi, and a shorter amount of time than rose's-sister paige received in rose's-sister paige single scene in the-last-jedi.
an-early-scene in which rose opts to stay on the-resistance-base while rey, finn, and poe go on adventure together was taken by many as a-direct-response to the-audience-reception of the-last-jedi and rose's arc within the-film.
tran had said in interviews before the-film's-release that tran was looking forward to scenes with rose and rey together in the-rise of skywalker, but fans and critics noted that no-such-scenes appeared in the-final-cut.
several-critics in their-reviews of the-film criticized rose's-minor-role, with some calling it a validation of the-people who attacked and harassed tran online.
in an-interview, terrio said the-filmmakers were not trying to deliberately sideline rose in the-film, stressing that terrio and j.-j.-abrams "adore" tran.
terrio said the-filmmakers wanted rose to stay behind with leia while the-other-characters were away because the-filmmakers wanted one of the-principal-characters to be an-"anchor" for those-scenes, which terrio described as an-indication of rose's importance.
when asked on the-red-carpet at the-2020-academy-awards about her-much-shorter-role in the-film, tran said tran was impressed by how abrams resolved so-many-different-storylines, adding: "at the-end of the-day, i got to be part of something bigger than tran, and that's really special."
the-last-jedi (blu-ray: director's-commentary-track).
rose in the starwars.com databank rose tico on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
a-planet is an-astronomical-body orbiting a-star or stellar-remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by a-planet own gravity, is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear-fusion, and – according to the-international-astronomical-union but not-all-planetary-scientists – has cleared the-international-astronomical-union neighbouring region of planetesimals.
a-planet is ancient, with ties to history, astrology, science, mythology, and religion.
apart from earth itself, five-planets in the-solar-system are often visible to the-naked-eye.
five-planets in the-solar-system were regarded by many-early-cultures as divine, or as emissaries of deities.
as scientific-knowledge advanced,-human-perception of five-planets in the-solar-system changed, incorporating a-number of disparate-objects.
although eight of the-planetary-bodies discovered before 1950 remain "planets" under the-current-definition, some-celestial-bodies, such as ceres, pallas, juno and vesta (each-an-object in the-solar-asteroid-belt), and pluto (the-first-trans-neptunian-object discovered), that were once considered planets by the-scientific-community, are no longer viewed as planets under the-current-definition of planet.
planets were thought by ptolemy to orbit earth in deferent-and-epicycle-motions.
although the-idea that planets orbited the-sun had been suggested many times, it was not until the-17th-century that this-view was supported by evidence from the-first-telescopic-astronomical-observations, performed by galileo-galilei.
as observational-tools improved, astronomers saw that, like earth, each of planets rotated around an-axis tilted with respect to its-orbital-pole, and some shared such-features as ice-caps and seasons.
since the-dawn of the-space-age, close-observation by space-probes has found that earth and the-other-planets share characteristics such as volcanism, hurricanes, tectonics, and even-hydrology.
planets in the-solar-system are divided into two-main-types: large-low-density-giant-planets, and smaller-rocky-terrestrials.
there are eight-planets in the-solar-system according to the-iau-definition.
several-thousands of planets around other-stars
as of 1-april 2021, 4,704 known extrasolar-planets in 3,478-planetary-systems (including 770-multiple-planetary-systems), ranging in size from just above the-size of the-moon to gas-giants about twice as large as jupiter have been discovered, out of-which-more-than-100-planets are the-same-size as earth, nine of which are at the-same-relative-distance from which more than 100 planets star as earth from the-sun, i.e. in the-circumstellar-habitable-zone.
the-idea of planets has evolved over the-idea of planets-history, from the-divine-lights of antiquity to the-earthly-objects of the-scientific-age.
the-ambiguities inherent in defining planets have led to much-scientific-controversy.
in ancient-greece, china, babylon, and indeed-all-pre-modern-civilizations, it was almost universally believed that earth was the-center of the-universe and that all-the-"planets" circled earth.
the-reasons for this-perception were that stars and planets appeared to revolve around earth each day and the apparently common-sense perceptions that earth was solid and stable and that earth was not moving but at rest.
the-mul.apin is a pair of cuneiform tablets dating from the-7th-century-bc that lays out the-motions of the-sun, moon, and planets over the-course of the-year.
the-pythagoreans, in the-6th-and-5th-centuries bc appear to have developed the-pythagoreans own independent-planetary-theory, which consisted of the-earth, sun, moon, and planets revolving around a-"central-fire" at the-center of the-universe.
in the-3rd-century-bc, aristarchus of samos proposed a-heliocentric-system, according to which earth and the-planets revolved around the-sun.
these-schemes, which were based on geometry rather than the-arithmetic of the-babylonians, would eventually eclipse the-babylonians theories in complexity and comprehensiveness, and account for most of the-astronomical-movements observed from earth with the-naked-eye.
to the-greeks and romans there were seven-known-planets, each presumed to be circling earth according to the-complex-laws laid out by ptolemy.
the-greeks and romans were, in increasing-order from earth (in ptolemy's-order and using modern-names): the-moon,-mercury,-venus, the-sun,-mars, jupiter, and saturn.
beneath the-greeks-φαίνων (phainon), and nearer to the-earth, moves the-planet of jupiter, which is called in greek-φαέθων (phaethon); it completes the-same-round of the-twelve-signs in twelve-years, and performs in it course the-same-variations as the-planet of saturn.
beneath this is the-planet of mercury, which is called by the-greeks στίλβων (stilbon); it traverses the-round of the-zodiac in about-the-time of the-year’s-revolution, and never withdraws more-than-one-sign’s distance from the-sun, moving at one-time in advance of it, and at another in its-rear.
the lowest of the-five-wandering-stars, and the-one nearest the-earth, is the-planet of venus, which is called φωσϕόρος (phosphoros) in greek, and lucifer in latin, when it is preceding the-sun, but ἕσπερος (hesperos) when it is following it; it completes it course in a-year, traversing the-zodiac both latitudinally and longitudinally, as is also done by the-planets above it, and on whichever-side of the-sun it is, it never departs more-than-two-signs’-distance from it."
he also believed that the-orbits of planets are elliptical.
with the-advent of the-scientific-revolution, use of the-term-"planet" changed from something that moved across the-sky (in relation to the-star-field); to a-body that orbited earth (or that was believed to do so at the-time); and by the-18th-century to something that directly orbited the-sun when the-heliocentric-model of copernicus, galileo and kepler gained sway.
thus, earth became included in the-list of planets, whereas the-sun and moon were excluded.
until the-mid-19th-century, the-number of "planets" rose rapidly because any-newly-discovered-object directly orbiting the-sun was listed as a-planet by the-scientific-community.
astronomers began to realize that-recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) were very different from the-traditional-ones.
recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) shared the-same-region of space between mars and jupiter (the-asteroid-belt), and had a-much-smaller-mass; as a-result recently-discovered-bodies that had been classified as planets for almost-half-a-century (such as ceres, pallas, juno, and vesta) were reclassified as "asteroids".
in 1992, astronomers aleksander wolszczan and dale-frail announced the-discovery of planets around a-pulsar, psr-b1257 +12.
then, on october 6, 1995, michel-mayor and didier-queloz of the-geneva-observatory announced the-first-definitive-detection of an-exoplanet orbiting an-ordinary-main-sequence-star (51-pegasi).the-discovery of extrasolar-planets led to another-ambiguity in defining a-planet: the-point at which a-planet becomes a-star.
with the-discovery during the-latter-half of the-20th-century of more-objects within the-solar-system and large-objects around other-stars, disputes arose over what should constitute a-planet.
a-growing-number of astronomers argued for pluto to be declassified as a-planet, because many-similar-objects approaching a-growing-number of astronomers-size had been found in the-same-region of the-solar-system (the-kuiper-belt) during the-1990s and early-2000s.
acknowledging the-problem, the-iau set about creating the-definition of planet, and produced one in august 2006.
the-number of planets dropped to the-eight-significantly-larger-bodies that had cleared the-number of planets-orbit (mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune), and a-new-class of dwarf-planets was created, initially containing three-objects (ceres, pluto and eris).
the-positions-statement incorporates the-following-guidelines, mostly focused upon the-boundary between planets and brown-dwarfs: objects with true-masses below the-limiting-mass for thermonuclear-fusion of deuterium (currently calculated to be 13-times-the-mass of jupiter for objects with the-same-isotopic-abundance as the-sun) that-orbit-stars or stellar-remnants are "planets" (no matter how orbit-stars or stellar-remnants formed).
this-formation-distinction between a-sub-brown-dwarf and a-planet is not universally agreed upon; astronomers are divided into two-camps as whether to consider the-formation-process of a-planet as part of a-planet division in classification.
for example, a-planet formed by accretion around a-star may get ejected from the-system to become free-floating, and likewise-a-sub-brown-dwarf that formed on a-planet formed by accretion around a-star own in a-star cluster through cloud-collapse may get captured into orbit around a-star.
the-exoplanet-data-explorer includes objects up-to-24-jupiter-masses with the-advisory: "the-13-jupiter-mass-distinction by the-iau-working-group is physically unmotivated for planets with rocky-cores, and observationally problematic due to the-sin i ambiguity."
another-criterion for separating planets and brown-dwarfs, rather than deuterium-fusion, formation-process or location, is whether the-core-pressure is dominated by coulomb-pressure or electron-degeneracy-pressure.
a-resolution defines planets within the-solar-system as follows
under this-definition, the-solar-system is considered to have eight-planets.
originally an-iau-committee had proposed a-definition that would have included a-much-larger-number of planets as an-iau-committee did not include (c) as a-criterion.
minor-planets and comets, including kbos [kuiper-belt-objects], differ from planets in that they can collide with each other and with planets.
"the-2006-iau-definition presents some-challenges for exoplanets because the-language is specific to the-solar-system and because the-criteria of roundness and orbital-zone-clearance are not presently observable.
objects formerly considered planets ===
the-table below lists solar-system-bodies once considered to be planets
but no longer considered as such by the-iau, as well as whether as well would be considered planets under stern's-2002-and-2018-definitions.
the-reporting of newly-discovered-large-kuiper-belt-objects as planets - particularly-eris - triggered the august 2006
the-iau-decision on what a-planet is.
in ancient-greece, the-two-great-luminaries the-sun and the-moon were called helios and selene; the-farthest-planet (saturn) was called phainon, the-shiner; followed by phaethon (jupiter), "bright"; the-red-planet (mars) was known as pyroeis, the "fiery"; the-brightest-(venus) was known as phosphoros, the-light-bringer; and the-fleeting-final-planet (mercury) was called stilbon, the-gleamer.
when the-romans studied greek-astronomy, the-romans gave the-planets the-romans own gods'-names: mercurius (for hermes), venus (aphrodite), mars (ares), iuppiter-(zeus) and saturnus (cronus).
earth is the-only-planet whose-name in english is not derived from greco-roman-mythology.
because was only generally accepted as a-planet in the-17th-century, there is no-tradition of naming after a-god.
the same is true, in english at least, of the-sun and the-moon, though they are no longer generally considered planets.)
the-name originates from the-8th-century anglo-saxon word erda, which means ground or soil and was first used in writing as the-name of the-sphere of earth perhaps around 1300.
china and the-countries of eastern-asia historically subject to chinese-cultural-influence (such as japan, korea and vietnam) use a-naming-system based on the-five-chinese-elements: water (mercury), metal (venus), fire (mars), wood (jupiter) and earth (saturn).in-traditional-hebrew-astronomy , the-seven-traditional-planets have (for the-most-part)-descriptive-names – the-sun is חמה-ḥammah or "the-hot-one,"
the-moon is לבנה-levanah or "the-white-one," venus is כוכב-נוגה-kokhav-nogah or "the-bright-planet," mercury is כוכב-kokhav or "the-planet" (given its-lack of distinguishing features), mars is מאדים-ma'adim or "the-red-one," and saturn is שבתאי-shabbatai or "the resting one" (in reference to its-slow-movement compared to the-other-visible-planets).
, earth is الأرض (
al-ʾarḍ, from the-same-root as eretz), mars is اَلْمِرِّيخ (al-mirrīkh, meaning "featherless-arrow" due to "featherless-arrow" retrograde motion), jupiter is المشتري (al-muštarī, "the reliable one", from akkadian) and saturn is زُحَل (zuḥal, "withdrawer").
it is not known with certainty how planets are formed.
the-prevailing-theory is that planets are formed during the-collapse of a-nebula into a-thin-disk of gas and dust.
after a-planet reaches a-mass somewhat larger than mars'-mass, it begins to accumulate an-extended-atmosphere, greatly increasing the-capture-rate of the-planetesimals by means of atmospheric-drag.
thereafter there still may be many-protoplanets orbiting the-star or each other, but over time many will collide, either to form a-single-larger-planet or release material for other-larger-protoplanets or planets to absorb.
protoplanets that have avoided collisions may become natural-satellites of planets through a-process of gravitational-capture, or remain in belts of other-objects to become either-dwarf-planets or small-bodies.
the-planets of the-solar-system can be divided into categories based on the-planets of the-solar-system composition:
terrestrials: planets that are similar to earth, with bodies largely composed of rock: mercury, venus, earth and mars.
earth is the-largest-terrestrial-planet.
the-number of geophysical-planets in the-solar-system is unknown - previously considered to be potentially in the-hundreds, but now only estimated at only-the-low-double-digits.
an-exoplanet (extrasolar-planet) is a-planet outside the-solar-system.
these-pulsar planets current-orbits.
the-catalog of kepler-candidate-planets consists mostly of planets the-size of neptune and smaller, down to smaller than mercury.
there are types of planets that do not exist in the-solar-system: super-earths-and-mini-neptunes, which could be rocky like earth or a-mixture of volatiles and gas like neptune—a-radius of 1.75 times that of earth is a-possible-dividing-line between the-two-types of planet.
there are exoplanets that are much closer to their-parent-star than any-planet in the-solar-system is to the-sun, and there are also exoplanets that are much farther from their-parent-star.
mercury, the-closest-planet to the-sun at 0.4-au, takes 88-days for an-orbit, but the-shortest-known-orbits for exoplanets take only-a-few-hours, see ultra-short-period-planet.
the-solar-system has five of the-solar-system planets in shorter-orbits than mercury's, all of its-planets much more massive than mercury.
the-solar-system is 30-au from the-sun the-sun and takes 165-years to orbit, but there are exoplanets that are hundreds of au from hundreds of au and take more-than-a-thousand-years to orbit, e.g. 1rxs1609 b. ==
a-planetary-mass-object (pmo), planemo, or planetary-body is a-celestial-object with a-mass that falls within the-range of the-definition of a-planet: massive enough to achieve hydrostatic-equilibrium (to be rounded under a-planet own gravity), but not enough to sustain core-fusion like a-star.
proponents of the-geophysical-definition of planets argue that location should not matter and that only-geophysical-attributes should be taken into account in the-definition of a-planet.
some of these-characteristics, such as rings or natural-satellites, have only as yet been observed in planets in the-solar-system, whereas others are also commonly observed in extrasolar-planets.
in the-solar-system, all-the-planets orbit the-sun in the-same-direction as the-sun rotates (counter-clockwise as seen from above the-sun's north pole).
a-planet's-year depends on a-planet's-year distance from a-planet's-year ; the farther a-planet is from a-planet , not only the longer the distance a-planet must travel, but also the slower a-planet speed, because a-planet is less affected by a-planet 's gravity.
as a-planet approaches periastron, a-planet speed increases as a-planet trades gravitational-potential-energy for kinetic-energy, just as a-falling-object on earth accelerates as a-planet falls; as the-planet reaches apastron, a-planet speed decreases, just as an-object thrown upwards on earth slows down as a-planet reaches the-apex of a-planet trajectory.
planets with low-eccentricities have more-circular-orbits, whereas planets with high-eccentricities have more-elliptical-orbits.
the-planets in the-solar-system have very-low-eccentricities, and thus-nearly-circular-orbits.
the-semi-major-axis is the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image).
the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image) is not the same as the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image)
the-inclination of a-planet tells how far above or below an-established-reference-plane a-planet orbit lies.
the-eight-planets of the-solar-system all lie very close to the-ecliptic; comets-and-kuiper-belt-objects like pluto are at-far-more-extreme-angles to it.
the-points at which a-planet crosses above and below a-planet reference plane are called a-planet ascending and descending nodes.
planets also have varying-degrees of axial-tilt; planets lie at an-angle to the-plane of planets stars' equators.
most of the-planets in the-solar-system rotate in the-same-direction as the-planets in the-solar-system orbit the-sun, which is counter-clockwise as seen from above the-sun's north pole, the-exceptions being venus and uranus, which rotate clockwise, though uranus's extreme axial tilt means there are differing-conventions on which of uranus poles is "north", and therefore whether uranus is rotating clockwise or anti-clockwise.
the-rotation of a-planet can be induced by several-factors during formation.
the-defining-dynamic-characteristic of a-planet is that a-planet has cleared a-planet neighborhood.
a-planet that has cleared its-neighborhood has accumulated enough-mass to gather up or sweep away all-the-planetesimals in its-orbit.
this-characteristic was mandated as part of the-iau's-official-definition of a-planet in august, 2006.
although to date this-criterion only applies to the-solar-system, a-number of young-extrasolar-systems have been found in which evidence suggests orbital-clearing is taking place within their-circumstellar-discs.
a-planet's-defining-physical-characteristic is that a-planet is massive enough for the-force of a-planet own gravity to dominate over the-electromagnetic-forces binding a-planet physical structure, leading to a-state of hydrostatic-equilibrium.
the-smallest-known-planet orbiting a-main-sequence-star other than the-sun is kepler-37b, with a-mass (and radius) slightly higher than that of the-moon.
the-composition of earth's-atmosphere is different from the-other-planets because the-various-life-processes that have transpired on the-planet have introduced free-molecular-oxygen.
the-presence of a-magnetic-field indicates that the-planet is still geologically alive.
these-fields significantly change the-interaction of the-planet and solar-wind.
of the-eight-planets in the-solar-system, only-venus and mars lack such-a-magnetic-field.
jupiter-ganymede's-magnetic-field is several times larger, and jupiter's is the strongest in the-solar-system (so strong in fact that ganymede's-magnetic-field poses a-serious-health-risk to future-manned-missions to ganymede's-magnetic-field moons).
several-planets or dwarf-planets in the-solar-system (such as neptune and pluto) have orbital-periods that are in resonance with each other or with smaller-bodies (this is also common in satellite-systems).
earth has one, mars has two, and the-giant-planets have numerous-moons in complex-planetary-type-systems.
the-ninth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed on 12-july 2014, and began airing 28 october 2014.
cast-member-vicky-pattison has featured in the-show since the-first-series.
this is a-list of the-current-cast-members appearing in the-show in order of their-first-appearance.
this is a-list of the-former-cast-members who have appeared in the-show in order of former-cast == last appearance.
after the-third-series, gardner and rebecca-walker exited the-show and auditions were held to find gardner and walker replacements for the-fourth-series of geordie-shore.
on 12-july 2013 it was announced that sophie-kasaei had been sacked from the-show following an-incident which took place in a-nightclub where sophie-kasaei used a-racist-term off camera.
sophie-kasaei will have appeared in the-show from series 1–7.
on 28-october 2014, it was revealed that the-upcoming-ninth-series of the-show would be vicky's-last-series.
on 17-november 2014, despite a-tenth-series already being announced, the-upcoming-ninth-series of the-show would be vicky's-last-series was confirmed that this would be james'-last-series after james' would be axed from the-show at the-end of series.
in november 2015 it was confirmed that chantelle-connelly and marty-mckenna had joined the-cast for the-twelfth-series.
it was later confirmed that sophie would replace sophie as sophie had expressed sophie desire to return following the-big-birthday-battle.
chantelle departed the-cast during the-thirteenth-series meaning the-series would be chantelle last.
it was announced that the-thirteenth-series-trailer in october 2016, meant the-cast would be in magaluf, ibiza, kavos and ayia-napa.
in december 2016, it was announced that holly and kyle would be leaving geordie-shore together in the-thirteenth-series-finale.
in november 2016, the-cast announced via twitter that filming for the-fourteenth-series had commenced and sophie-kasaei had made yet-another-comeback, however sophie-kasaei had permanently rejoined the-main-cast since sophie-kasaei departure in the-seventh-series.
after the-seventeenth-season, dee and nick did not return to the-show.
scott-timlin returned to the-show in the-role of boss.
faith-mullen, abbie-holborn and adam-guthrie did not return for the-nineteenth-season, however the last two appeared on a-recurring-basis throughout the-nineteenth-season.
sam-gowland and tahlia-chung left the-show after that-season.
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix –
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is a-2019-american-epic-space-opera-film produced, co-written, and directed by j.-j.-abrams.
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is the-third-installment of the star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the nine-part "skywalker saga".
the-rise of skywalker follows rey, finn, and poe-dameron as they lead the-resistance's-final-stand against supreme-leader-kylo-ren and the-first-order, who are aided by the-return of the-deceased-galactic-emperor,-palpatine.
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
principal-photography began in august 2018 at pinewood-studios in england and wrapped in february 2019, with post-production completed in november 2019.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 grossed over $1.074 billion worldwide, becoming the-seventh-highest-grossing-film of 2019;
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 was the-lowest-grossing-installment of the-trilogy, the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 turned an-estimated-net-profit of $300 million.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 received three-nominations at the-92nd-academy-awards (best-original-score, best-visual-effects, and best-sound-editing) as well as three at the-73rd-british-academy-film-awards (also-best-special-visual-effects, best-original-music, and best-sound).
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
there, kylo-ren finds palpatine, who reveals that kylo-ren created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and lure kylo to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order—a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—and tells kylo to find and kill rey, who is continuing her-jedi-training under resistance-leader-leia-organa.
finn and poe-dameron deliver intelligence from a-spy that palpatine is on exegol; rey has learned from luke-skywalker's-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead them there.
kylo initiates a-force-bond with rey to discover her-location; kylo travels to pasaana with kylo warrior subordinates, the-knights of ren.
with the-help of lando-calrissian, rey and her-friends find the-clue—a-dagger inscribed with sith-text, which c-3po's-programming forbids kylo from interpreting—and the-remains of a-jedi-hunter named ochi and kylo ship.
rey senses kylo nearby and faces rey.
the-first-order captures the-falcon, chewbacca, and the-dagger; attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning.
rey senses chewbacca is alive, and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission to kylo's-star-destroyer.
rey recovers the-dagger and has visions of ochi killing rey parents with the-dagger.
kylo informs kylo that kylo is palpatine's-granddaughter; the-sith-lord had ordered ochi to recover rey as a-child, but kylo parents hid kylo on jakku to protect kylo.
rey retrieves the-wayfinder from the-remains of the-second-death-star, but she is met by kylo, who destroys the-wayfinder and duels she.
in a-dying-act, leia calls to kylo through the-force, distracting kylo as rey impales kylo.
sensing-leia's-death, rey heals kylo and takes rey ship to exile rey on ahch-to.
there, luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives rey leia's lightsaber.
rey leaves for exegol in luke's-x-wing-fighter, using the-wayfinder from kylo's-ship.
, palpatine sends one of palpatine superlaser-equipped star destroyers to destroy kijimi as a-show of force.
rey transmits her-coordinates to r2-d2, allowing the-resistance—now led by poe and finn—to follow her to exegol.
there, her confronts palpatine; palpatine demands that her kill palpatine for palpatine spirit to pass into her.
lando brings reinforcements from across the-galaxy to join the-battle.
ben overpowers the-knights of ren and joins rey, but palpatine drains the-knights of ren power to rejuvenate palpatine.
palpatine incapacitates ben and attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who lend her their-strength.
palpatine attacks her with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine before dying her.
ben uses the-force to revive her at the-cost of ben own life; they share a-kiss before ben dies.
the-resistance defeats palpatine's-armada, while people across the-galaxy rise up against the-first-order.
the-resistance returns to
after the-celebration, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries rey and leia's-lightsabers.
a-passerby asks a-passerby name; as the-spirits of luke and leia watch, a-passerby replies, "rey-skywalker."
mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi-master and maternal-uncle of kylo-ren became one with the-force in the-last-jedi.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-former-scavenger from jakku, member of the-resistance, and the-next-jedicailey-fleming and josefine-irrera-jackson as young rey john boyega as finn, a-member of the-resistance and a-former-stormtrooper-(fn-2187) who defected from the-first-order oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa
naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance-domhnall-gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire-lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi
joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather billy-dee-williams as lando-calrissian, a-veteran of the-rebel-alliance, a-former-owner of the-millennium-falcon, and an-old-friend of chewbaccabillie lourd and greg-grunberg reprise their-roles as lieutenant-kaydel-ko-connix and temmin
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
jodie-comer and billy-howle briefly appear as rey's-parents, while tom-wilton and screenwriter chris-terrio briefly appear as the-performer and voice for aftab-ackbar, the-son of admiral-ackbar, respectively; and mike-quinn and kipsang-rotich return as the-performer and voice of nien-nunb, respectively.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was announced as the-director of the-film; colin-trevorrow was to write the-script with frequent-collaborator-derek-connolly.
carrie-fisher died in december 2016.
in august 2017, it was announced that jack-thorne would rewrite the-script.
in september 2017, lucasfilm stated that trevorrow had left the-production following creative-differences, resulting trevorrow working relationship with kathleen-kennedy to become unmanageable after failing to deliver a-satisfactory-script, despite writing several-drafts.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
abrams co-wrote the-new-script with chris-terrio, though trevorrow and connolly retain story-credits.
the-story was rewritten to some-extent before filming was completed.
the-film was produced by abrams-co--company-bad-robot-productions, kathleen-kennedy, and michelle-rejwan.
according to terrio, the-film's-script had to include certain-narrative-beats provided by kennedy and rejwan, including the-redemption of the-character kylo-ren.
carrie-fisher, who played leia-organa, died on december 27, 2016.
in january 2017, lucasfilm stated that there were no-plans to digitally generate fisher's-performance as lucasfilm had for rogue one (2016).
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
since the-event was held after principal-photography wrapped, abrams was thrilled that news of ian-mcdiarmid on the-set never leaked.
kathleen-kennedy said they decided to reveal palpatine's-return ahead of the-film's-release because of the-characters playing a-larger-role in the-story, having they differentiated from baby-yoda, the-character from the-mandalorian.
principal-photography began on august 1, 2018, at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
filming also took place in wadi-rum, jordan.
oscar-isaac stated that abrams was allowing more-improvised-acting than in the-previous-two-films.
due to the-tight-schedule, some-editing took place on set.
footage from the-film was shown at the-walt-disney-company's-annual-shareholders-meeting on march 7, 2019.
two-weeks of reshoots took place at pinewood involving hamill, ridley, and isaac in july 2019.
another-round of reshoots took place between late-september and october.
roger-guyett finished post-production on november 25, 2019.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
in august 2019, it was revealed that john-williams had written about 35 of an-expected-135-minutes of music for the-film, which according to john-williams brother-don, would incorporate all of the-major-themes of the-skywalker-saga.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 20, 2019.
despite staying silent about many-details of the-film, abrams expressed abrams hopes that fans and general-audiences would be "satisfied".
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
on august 24, a-new-poster and "sizzle-reel" was released at d23; the latter was released to the public two days later.
it includes the-novel-resistance-reborn, set between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker, and various-other-titles.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-official-novelization of the-rise of skywalker is by rae-carson:
: he transferred he consciousness into a-clone-body following he death in return of the-jedi, and
the-junior-novel and corresponding-audiobook are by michael-kogge and were released on april 21, 2020.
additionally, a-five-issue-marvel-comics-adaptation written by jody-houser and illustrated by will-sliney was originally planned to debut in mid-2020, but this was later canceled, making the-film the first in the-franchise not to receive a-comic-adaptation.
in december 2019, the-video-game fortnite-battle-royale released several-cosmetics featuring character-skins for rey, finn, a-sith-trooper, kylo-ren, and zorii-bliss along with a-tie-fighter-glider, a-millennium-falcon-glider (which was given to players for free from the-winterfest-event), four-emotes, and two-free-banners.
on december 14, fortnite's-publisher-epic-games released a-preview of the-film on an in-game theater screen as a-live-event.
at the-end of a-live-event, a-message from palpatine (the-one mentioned in the-film's-opening-crawl) was heard.
the-film was originally planned to be released in the-united-states on may 24, 2019, before being pushed back to december 20.
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-tcl-chinese-theatre in los-angeles on december 16.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-4k-version of the-film was released on disney+
on may 4, which is reportedly two months ahead of the-4k-version of the-film previously-scheduled-release-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $300 million when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale on october 21, 2019, and the-film sold more-tickets in pre-sale-tickets first hour of availability on atom-tickets than the-previous-record-holder for ticket-sales, avengers: endgame (2019).
endgame (2019) became atom-tickets'-second-best-first-day-seller of all-time behind endgame, selling more-than-twice-the-number of tickets as the-last-jedi sold in that-same-timeframe, while fandango reported fandango outsold all-previous-star-wars-films.
box-office-tracking had the-rise of skywalker grossing around $200 million in box-office-tracking opening weekend, though some-firms predicted a-debut closer to $175 million.
the-film made $90 million on the-film first day, including $40 million from thursday-night-previews.
the-film went on to debut to $177.3 million, and the-film was also noted that saturday (which saw a-47%-drop from friday's gross) was the-busiest-shopping-day of the-year, likely affecting ticket-sales.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-film went on to have a-five-day-total of $138.8 million, including $76 million for the-weekend.
in the-film third-weekend, the-film made $34.5 million, remaining in first, before being dethroned in
the-film fourth weekend by newcomer 1917 (2019).worldwide-the-film was projected to gross around $450 million in
the-film made $59.1 million from
the-film first-day of international-release in 46-countries.
in china, the-film made $1.6 million (rmb11.6 million) through
the-film went on to open to $198 million from overseas-countries and $373.5 million worldwide, coming in below projections and 47% lower than the-last-jedi's-total.
the-website's-critical-consensus reads, "the-rise of skywalker suffers from a-frustrating-lack of imagination, but concludes this-beloved-saga with fan-focused-devotion.
as of january 2020, the-film is the-lowest-rated-live-action-film of the-star-wars-series.
lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
owen-gleiberman of variety called the filmthe most elegant, emotionally rounded, and gratifying star-wars-adventure since the-glory-days of star-wars (1977) and the empire strikes back (1980) [...]
" the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film's-acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
scott-mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
people involved on the-film defended asian-actress-kelly-marie-tran, with some claiming some of the-attackers were racist, and body shamers.
according to cinemascore, american-audiences gave the-film an-average-grade of "b+" on an-a+ to f-scale, the lowest among the-live-action-films.
relishmix, which tracks social-media-posts and online-presence, "noticed a-divided-reaction to skywalker online, though it leaned slightly positive".
the-rise of skywalker at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker at imdb-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki star warsskywalker , is an-american-actress.
the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
tran attended westview-high-school in san-diego and worked at a-yogurt-shop to earn money for head-shots.
tran then graduated from ucla with a-b.a. in communications.
early-work === landed a-commercial-agent in 2011, who got tran to take improv-classes at the-upright-citizens-brigade.
at the-second-city, tran is part of the-all-female,-asian-american-improv-group, number-one-son.
in 2013, tran starred in the-web-series-ladies like us.
in 2015, tran was working as an-assistant at a-creative-recruiting-firm in century-city.
star-wars ==
in 2015, tran was cast as rose-tico in star-wars: the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi made tran the first asian-american woman to have a-major-role in a-star-wars-film.
tran voiced raya in the walt disney animation studios production raya and the-last-dragon, replacing cassie-steele.
tran was to play val-little in the upcoming disney+
tran has also been cast as dawn in the-film
following the-release of star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017), tran became the-subject of racist-and-misogynistic-attacks over the-internet, including insults about tran ethnicity and weight.
tran was the-target of racist-trolling on twitter; in one-example, internet-personality-paul-ray-ramsey mocked tran weight.
in december 2017, tran-character-rose-tico's-entry on wookieepedia, an-online-encyclopedia about the-star-wars-universe, was edited to include racist-and-vulgar-comments, which drew national-media-attention.
after months of online-harassment, tran deleted all of tran instagram posts in june 2018, and replaced the-account-bio with, "afraid, but doing it anyway.
subsequently, several-cast-and-crew-members of the-last-jedi condemned the-attacks and spoke out in defense of tran, including writer-director-rian-johnson and actors-john-boyega, domhnall-gleeson, and mark-hamill, the last of whom tweeted a-picture of himself with tran and wrote the-caption, "what's not to love?
other-celebrities voiced support for tran as well, including stephen-colbert, josh-gad, kumail-nanjiani, gabrielle-union, elijah-wood, and edgar-wright.
in less-than-one-day, more-than-20,000-fans retweeted a-message of support for tran from a-fan on twitter that sought to "drown out the-manbabies".
tran was also shown support at the-2018-san-diego-comic-con during a-"rally for rose", where fans appeared in cosplay-attire as tran star wars character rose tico or wore "rose for hope" t-shirts.
after a-prolonged-stretch of silence about her-harassment, tran wrote an-essay on the-subject for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
tran further wrote that the-ordeal came to a-point when tran began to believe the-negative-remarks made about tran, stating they had sent tran "down a-spiral of self-hate, into the-darkest-recesses of my-mind, places where i tore tran apart, where i put they words above my own self-worth."
tran concluded with, "you might know me as kelly.
tran later said the-essay was difficult to write, but also "probably one of the-proudest-moments of [tran] career thus far."
in the-mandalorian ==, fennec-shand is presented as an-elite-mercenary and assassin who developed a-significant-reputation committing murders for the-galaxy's-top-crime-syndicates, including the-hutts, before the-galaxy's-top-crime-syndicates, including the-hutts leaders were imprisoned by the-new-republic.
they track fennec to a-part of the-planet known as the-dune-sea, where they discover the-dead-body of another-bounty-hunter she had previously killed.
the-mandalorian eventually charge toward her-position on speeder-bikes and use flash-charges to temporarily blind and distract her.
when the-mandalorian temporarily departs to secure them transportation, fennec informs toro that the-mandalorian is wanted by the-bounty-hunters-guild, and that capturing him would bring toro a-legendary-reputation.
fennec offered to work with toro to subdue the-mandalorian and turn toro over to the-bounty-hunters-guild.
toro decides to attempt to capture the-mandalorian himself, and leaves fennec's-body in the-desert. "
she accompanies fett to tython, where they attempt to recover the-latter's-old-armor from the-mandalorian, and ensure the-safety of grogu, a-force-sensitive-alien-infant that the-mandalorian has adopted, in exchange for the-armor's-return.
to repay their-debt to the-mandalorian for returning fett's-armor, fett and fennec aid fett efforts to rescue grogu in both-"chapter 15:
at the-conclusion of the-latter-episode, fennec and fett return to tatooine and kill bib-fortuna, who has been in charge of jabba the-hutt's-palace since his-death.
a-younger-fennec will appear in the-book of boba-fett, scheduled to be released in december 2021, with ming-na-wen reprising ming-na-wen role.
ming-na-wen, the-actress who portrays fennec, felt the-character has a-moral-ambiguity similar to that of popular-star-wars-character-han-solo.
anthony-breznican of vanity-fair has noted that the-character is rather talkative in this-way, in contrast to the-usually-stoic-and-silent-title-character, the-mandalorian.
she feels the-character "has a-good-sense of humor about it all as well".
wen was a-fan of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, and as one of the-few-asian-girls growing up in mt.-lebanon, pennsylvania during wen childhood, wen could relate in particular to the-character luke-skywalker and wen dreams of a-more-meaningful-life.
wen has described star-wars as wen "favorite-all-time-genre".
wen said wen is pleased there has been more-representation of asians among the-casts of star-wars-projects in recent-years, citing kelly-marie-tran's-character rose-tico in star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017) as another-example.
after attending the-premiere for the-mandalorian on november 13, 2019, wen posted photos from the-event on twitter and wrote: " what a night!
anthony-breznican of vanity-fair noted the-fennec-fox is a-particularly-appropriate-model for the-character because, like fennec-shand, it is both-predator and prey.
wen felt the-character shared common-attributes with the-fennec-fox, including trickiness, stealthiness, maneuverability, and the-ability to survive.
the-character of fennec-shan and casting of wen were first announced at the-d23-expo in anaheim, california on august 23, 2019.
footage of fennec-shand was first publicly shown in a-30-second-teaser-trailer for the-mandalorian released on november 4, 2019.
abbey-white said the-character was "eagerly anticipated" by the-time the-mandalorian premiered.
as a-result, the-hairstylist on the-mandalorian conceived a-braiding-system with triangular-points, similar to the-ears of a-fennec-fox.
vanity-fair-writer-anthony-breznican felt men's-health-writer evan-romano continued a-positive-and-significant-trend of greater-diversity in star-wars casting, citing other-examples of asian-actors in recent-projects such as kelly-marie-tran in the-last-jedi and christopher-sean in star-wars resistance.
jackson-mchenry of vulture praised wen's-performance, and called the-character "one of the-badder-ass-badasses in the-world of the-mandalorian".
prior to fennec-shand return in the-second-season, several-reviewers felt fennec-shand was eliminated too quickly and did not get the-chance to live up to fennec-shand potential.
dirk-libbey of cinemablend called the-character "criminally underused", and allie-gemmill of inverse called allie-gemmill of inverse death "hasty".
several-reviewers correctly speculated that the-character was still alive, with some-arguing
so-enjoyed-wen's-acting that stephanie-dube-dwilson of heavy.com hopes the-character returns.
the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed in october 2013 after cast-member-holly-hagan announced the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne on twitter and is expected to air 22 july 2014.
all-other-cast-members from the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne return with the-addition of new-cast-member-aaron-chalmers who had briefly appeared during series two of the-show as a-one-night-stand of holly's.
an-exclusive-first-trailer for the-series was released during an-episode of ex-on the-beach on 3-june 2014.
an-exclusive-first-trailer for the-series was revealed on 10-june 2014 that another-new-cast-member had joined, 21-year-old-kyle-christie.
rey, also known as rey skywalker, is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise and the-main-protagonist of the-sequel-film-trilogy.
rey was created by lawrence-kasdan, j.-j.-abrams, and michael-arndt for the force awakens (2015), the-first-installment of the-sequel-film-trilogy, and is portrayed by daisy-ridley.
she also appears in the-film's-sequels, the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019), and related-star-wars-media.
rey is introduced as a-scavenger who was left behind on the-planet-jakku when rey was a-child.
rey later becomes involved with the-resistance's-conflict with the-first-order.
powerful with the-force, rey trains to be a-jedi under luke-skywalker and general-leia, and faces adversaries such as supreme-leader-snoke, kylo-ren, and the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine—who is revealed to be rey grandfather in the-rise of skywalker.
rey later adopts the-name "skywalker" to honor rey mentors and the-family-legacy.
reception to the-character and ridley's-performance has been highly positive.
the-character was known as kira in the-early-stages of production, and screenwriter-michael-arndt described kira as a "loner, hothead, gear-head, badass".
screenwriter-michael-arndt said that screenwriter-michael-arndt struggled with introducing the-young-woman as the-main-character in the-origin-story of a-female-jedi while keeping kira from being overshadowed after kira early meeting with luke-skywalker, whose-role in the-film was eventually minimized.
ridley recalled that-director and writer-j.-j.-abrams originally intended to name the-character "keera" [sic], but during filming in abu-dhabi, writer-j.-j.-abrams revealed to ridley that ridley was thinking of going with "rey".
on creating a-female-lead for the-new-trilogy, abrams stated that from abrams initial discussions with writer-lawrence-kasdan, abrams was excited at the-concept of having a-woman at the-center of the-story.
abrams said that "we always wanted to write rey as the-central-character" and that other-female-representation in the-story was also important.
daisy-ridley was announced as part of the-cast at the-end of april 2014.
daisy-ridley-inexperience and lack of exposure were a-crucial-part of what convinced abrams to give daisy-ridley the-role, as the-previous-installments had featured relatively-unknown-talent that would not experience heightened-degrees of scrutiny.
abrams stated that ridley "was so funny and had a-great-spark", as well as having ridley act out an-emotional-scene, proclaiming that "ridley nailed it on the-first-take."
abrams went on to praise ridley, saying, "ridley was born with this-gift to be in a-moment and make this-gift ridley own.
kennedy proclaimed, "ridley had a-physicality and a-self-confidence that was so important to the-character we were looking for.
ridley recalled ridley shooting experience as starting off bumpy, with abrams telling ridley that ridley
but ridley and abrams had an-"incredibly-collaborative"-process creating rey; ridley recalled that the-character "changed from when ridley and abrams first began, ridley became softer.
ridley has said that rey will have "some-impact in a-girl-power-y-way", adding that the-character "doesn't have to be one-thing to embody a-woman in a-film.
composer-john-williams said composer-john-williams immediately loved ridley in the-film and found composing ridley theme an-interesting-challenge.
composer-john-williams said that her-theme does not suggest a-love-theme, but rather a-strong-female-adventurer-character infused with the-force for a-mature,-thoughtful-theme.
rey is introduced as a-19-year-old-woman in the force awakens.
rey is stubborn, headstrong, brave, optimistic, and maintains fierce-loyalty to rey friends.
ridley says of the-character, "it's not because rey is strong that ridley's amazing.
rey is highly force-sensitive, which is revealed when ridley is presented with the-lightsaber first owned by anakin-skywalker, then rey son luke.
without training, she is able to use the-force and defeat the powerful (albeit injured)
kylo-ren in a-duel.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
rey is first introduced as an-orphan living alone on the-desert-planet jakku, scraping a-living through scavenging parts from ships.
she rescues the-astromech-droid bb-8 and encounters finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper.
attacked by first-order-troops, rey steals and pilots the-millennium-falcon to evade finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper and escape jakku.
she saves finn and smuggler han-solo
impressed with rey's-bravery and piloting-skill, han offers she a-job on the-millennium-falcon; however, rey declines rey offer, feeling that she has to return to jakku.
after convene at maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on the-planet
takodana to return bb-8 to the-resistance, the-first-order is alerted to their-presence.
rey visits maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on the-planet's-basement-vault in which maz has stored a-lightsaber that once belonged to luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and maz father before maz.
upon touching it, rey experiences a-terrifying-vision: rey sees a-battle led by first-order-enforcer-kylo-ren (adam-driver), a-flashback of rey younger self being left behind on jakku, and a-vision of luke, the-last-jedi-master in the-galaxy, who has been missing for several-years.
maz debates that whoever abandoned rey will never return to jakku, and rey only option is to seek out strength in the-force.
feeling overwhelmed, rey rejects the-lightsaber and flees into the-forest.
the-first-order attacks maz's-castle, and ren captures rey when the-resistance arrives.
ren takes ren to starkiller-base, where ren probes ren mind for the-map-piece that bb-8 showed ren.
ren uses the-force to read rey's-mind, revealing rey feels that han is like the-father ren never had.
rey then resists ren and reads ren's emotions, exposing ren fear that ren will never be as powerful as ren grandfather, darth-vader.
ren reports to ren master, supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), who commands that rey should be brought before ren.
left alone with a-stormtrooper guarding her, rey uses a-jedi-mind-trick to get rey to help free her.
han, and chewbacca watch in horror as ren kills ren own father, han.
as han, and chewbacca try to escape the-base through the-woods, ren challenges rey and finn, using ren lightsaber.
after ren seriously injures finn and disarms him of luke's-lightsaber, rey uses the-force to retrieve the-weapon and battles ren ren.
initially overpowered, rey rejects ren's-offer to train ren and uses the-force with the-lightsaber, disfiguring ren face.
after escaping the-destroyed-base in the-millennium-falcon with chewbacca and the-wounded-finn, ren returns to the-destroyed-base in the-millennium-falcon.
while the-resistance celebrates the-victory, rey mourns han's-death with leia-organa (carrie-fisher) and visits finn, who is still unconscious.
ren decides to seek out luke's-location, using information provided by bb-8-and-the-re-activated-r2-d2-(kenny-baker).
rey, chewbacca, and r2-travel in the-falcon to the-oceanic-planet of ahch-to; upon finding luke, rey presents rey with rey longtime lightsaber.
rey is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
rey is also a-point of view-character in the-2015-novelization of the force awakens by alan-dean-foster.
after receiving criticism, hasbro stated that hasbro did not include rey to avoid revealing spoilers, and would be including rey in future-toy-releases.
abrams said, "i will say that it seems preposterous and wrong that the-main-character of the-movie is not well represented in what is clearly a-huge-piece of the-star-wars-world in terms of merchandising."
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
rey is one of the-key-characters of the-last-jedi.
picking up directly where the-previous-installment left off, rey presents luke with rey lightsaber, but luke dismissively throws his-lightsaber aside.
luke eventually agrees to teach rey the-ways of the-force.
rey demonstrates immense-raw-strength and a-clear-temptation toward the-dark-side of the-force that reminds luke of kylo-ren, who was once his-nephew and student, ben-solo.
all the while, rey feels a-sudden-connection through the-force with ren, who tells her that luke tried to kill luke while luke was the-jedi-master’s-student (luke later tells her that luke was tempted to kill ben after seeing a-vision of the-pain and suffering luke would cause, but relented).
in one of their-conversations, rey and ren touch hands, and through this rey swears that rey is able to feel conflict within ren, and becomes determined to turn ren back to the-light-side.
rey asks luke once more to come with rey and rejoin the-resistance, but rey declines.
so, rey, chewbacca, and r2-d2 leave without rey, and rey goes to meet ren in the-supremacy.
ren takes rey-prisoner and brings ren before snoke.
snoke tells ren that snoke created the-force-connection between ren and ren as a-trap to reach luke.
snoke-tortures and taunts rey, showing her the-attack on the-resistance-transports, and eventually orders ren to kill her.
ren instead kills snoke, and ren and rey fight snoke's guards side by side.
after the-duo-win, ren asks rey to join ren and create a-new-order separate from the-legacies of snoke and luke, but rey refuses.
in an-attempt to get her to turn, ren gets rey to admit that ren parents abandoned ren.
despite the-revelation, rey refuses to join ren and uses the-force to summon luke's-lightsaber, but ren does so, too, resulting in a-standoff that ultimately breaks luke's-lightsaber.
shortly afterwards, resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) rams resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) cruiser into snoke's-flagship, separating rey from ren.
rey subsequently uses snoke's-escape-craft to flee the-dreadnought as later stated by general-hux.
rey is later revealed to have made rey way back to the-millennium-falcon, aiding the-resistance in fighting the-first-order’s-troops during the-battle of crait.
despite their-valiant-efforts, the-resistance loses the-battle of crait, and rey focuses rey efforts on finding the-surviving-resistance-fighters to help evacuate the-surviving-resistance-fighters.
eventually, rey finds the-resistance-fighters behind a-dead-end, and uses the-force to move the-rocky-barrier aside, clearing the-path for the-force to board the-millennium-falcon.
rey reunites with finn and leia and meets poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) for the-first-time aboard the-falcon.
rey feels luke’s-death through the-force, and reassures leia that he met he end with "peace and purpose".
as she holds the-leftovers of luke's-lightsaber, rey asks leia how they can rebuild the-resistance from what remains, and leia, gesturing towards rey, says that they now have all they need.
unbeknownst to leia, that includes the-fact that rey stole the-sacred-jedi-texts from luke before yoda's-(frank-oz)-ghost burned the-tree-cave they were in.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
rey is the-main-protagonist of the-trilogy's-final-film, the-rise of skywalker, which is set one year after the-events of the-last-jedi.
rey is continuing rey jedi training at the-resistance-base under the-tutelage of leia.
the-resistance announces that the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has been manipulating events from the-sith-world-exegol and has built a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—the final order.
rey discovers from luke's-old-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead a-sith-wayfinder to exegol.
rey locates the-clue—a-dagger with sith-inscriptions—with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams).
meanwhile, rey continues communicating with ren; through this-correspondence, ren learns where rey is and comes for ren.
rey confronts ren, inadvertently allowing chewbacca to be taken aboard a-first-order-transport.
attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys the-transport with force-lightning, seemingly killing chewbacca.
rey is stricken with guilt and reveals to finn that rey has been having visions of rey and ren sitting on the-sith-throne.
rey and the-others travel to kijimi, where programmer-babu-frik extracts the-location of the-wayfinder—the-moon-kef-bir—from c-3po's-memory-files.
ren and the-first-order follow rey to kijimi.
rey senses chewbacca is alive and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission.
rey retrieves the-dagger aboard ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer steadfast and has visions of ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer parents being killed with it; ren informs ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer that ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer is palpatine's-granddaughter.
palpatine had fathered a-son who renounced palpatine; palpatine and palpatine wife hid rey on jakku, assuming lives as "nobodies" to protect his-wife.
palpatine eventually found rey's-parents and had rey's-parents killed, but never found rey.
ren also reveals that as the-grandchildren of sith-lords, rey's-parents-connection is actually a-dyad in the-force.
ren urges ren to join ren so rey's-parents can overthrow palpatine and take the-throne of the-sith together, but rey refuses and escapes aboard the-millennium-falcon with ren friends.
together, they travel to kef-bir where rey retrieves the-wayfinder on the-remains of the-second-death-star; upon touching the-artifact, the-second-death-star has a-vision of the-second-death-star as a-sith.
leia, dying, calls to the-second-death-star through the-force; rey impales the-second-death-star as the-second-death-star is distracted.
also sensing leia's-death, rey realizes what the-second-death-star did to the-second-death-star and regrets impaling the-second-death-star.
the-second-death-star uses the-force to heal the-second-death-star and confesses that the-second-death-star did want to join the-second-death-star as ben-solo before escaping aboard the-second-death-star tie fighter.
disturbed by her-sith-lineage, rey exiles herself on ahch-to.
luke's-force-spirit encourages her to face palpatine and gives her-leia's-lightsaber and palpatine old-x-wing.
rey departs for exegol with the-wayfinder from ren's-ship.
meanwhile, ren resumes ren true identity as ben-solo.
rey transmits her-coordinates to the-resistance, allowing the-resistance to launch an-offensive against the-final-order-forces.
rey confronts palpatine, who demands rey kill him in anger for him spirit to pass into rey, making rey "empress palpatine".
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who restore her-strength.
palpatine attacks palpatine with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine and palpatine.
ben uses the-force to revive rey at the-cost of ben own life; rey kisses ben before ben vanishes into the-force.
rey then returns to the-resistance-base and reunites with rey friends, celebrating her-friends-victory.
sometime later, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries the-skywalker-lightsabers, having built the-skywalker-lightsabers own in a-golden-color.
a-passerby asks rey a-passerby name; after seeing the-force-spirits of luke and leia, a-passerby responds, "rey skywalker".
the-novelization of the-rise of skywalker reveals that rey's-father was a-nonidentical-clone of palpatine.
an-upcoming-issue of the-comic-book-series star-wars-adventures will feature a-story set after the-events of the-film featuring rey, finn, and poe continuing to fight the-first-order.
rey makes a-brief-cameo as a-disembodied-voice in the-television-series star-wars-rebels, in the-episode "a-world between worlds".
in the-episode, set 16 years before rey-birth and 35 years before the-force awakens, the-young-padawan ezra-bridger briefly hears some of rey-lines from the-film (specifically rey speaking to the-unconscious-finn at the-end) in the-world between worlds, a-dimension that exists outside of time and space.
rey stars in the-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny, voiced by daisy-ridley.
the-character of rey appears in the-video-games disney infinity 3.0, lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens, and star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017),
the-character of rey was also introduced as a-player-"skin" in the-game fortnite.
the-character and ridley's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim.
joe-morgenstern of the-wall-street-journal proclaimed that rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley] must have been born with plus the skill she must have acquired as a-young-actress coming up in england," and stating, "it's hard to imagine what the-movie—and the sequels to come—might have been if rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley]'d cast the-wrong-person, but here ridley is in all ridley unassuming glory, and all's right with the-galaxy."
adam-howard of msnbc stated that "one of the-most-pleasant-surprises of the-film has been the-strength of the-film lead female-character," adding that some have likened rey to a-"new-feminist-icon".
relatedly, emily-rome of hitfix argued that rey is "everything we wanted in a-star-wars-female-character," praising ridley for being a-character that is "independent, skilled, scrappy, tough, and doesn't need saving."
in a-personal-essay, nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly wrote about nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly daughters feeling empowered after viewing the-film, stating, "they never commented on how pretty rey is.
they never had to flinch because rey was a-sexual-object to some-man in power.
megan-garber of the-atlantic wrote that rey "proves megan-garber of the-atlantic to be, in extremely-short-order, extremely adept as a-fighter".
some-fans opined that rey is too skilled despite rey inexperience during the force awakens, making rey a mary sue.
rome wrote that "the-speed with which rey mastered jedi-mind-tricks and lightsaber fighting with zero-training is the-stuff of fan-fiction.
rey is geek-feminist-wish-fulfillment."
tasha-robinson of the-verge said that rey "keeps falling into standard-issue damsel-in-distress situations, then capably rescuing herself."
j.-j.-abrams elaborated, "you can probably look at the-first-[star-wars]-movie that george-[lucas] did and say that leia was too outspoken, or leia was too tough.
adrienne-tyler of screen-rant argued rey's-abilities are explained in the-rise of skywalker as resulting from the-pair forming a-dyad in the-force, sharing the-same-fighting-capabilities.
rey has also been compared to the-titular-character from the-hayao-miyazaki-anime-film-nausicaä of the-valley of the-wind (1984).richard-roeper described ridley's-portrayal of rey as "a-breakout-performance", continuing by calling the-character "tough and resourceful and smart and brave".
the-first-reel-women in technology-award for a-fictional-character was awarded to the-character ".
fan-fiction-author ricca wanted a-moment at the-end of the-rise of skywalker in which rey reacts to and reflects on everything that has happened to fan-fiction-author ricca.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, and that star-wars: knights of the-old-republic character arc shares thematic similarities with that of bastila's.
the-most-popular-theories were that rey's-parentage is the-daughter of luke-skywalker or han-solo, or is obi-wan-kenobi's-granddaughter (because of a-scene where rey hears kenobi's-echoed-voice following a-vision in the force awakens).
the-view that rey's-parentage is luke's-daughter was especially prominent, with fans and critics highlighting their-story-arc-similarities, star-wars being a-luke-skywalker-saga, rey having a-strong-attachment to luke's-lightsaber, and being exceptionally strong with the-force without any-training.
some fan theories about rey's-parentage pointed to "rey's-theme" featured in john-williams'-score of the force awakens, as the-theme shared similarities with the-themes for darth-vader and luke.
abrams stated that abrams intentionally withheld rey's-last-name and background in the force awakens.
abrams said that abrams felt that the-origin of kylo-ren was the-only-thing that could be revealed in kylo-ren film and that kylo-ren knew "quite a bit" about rey's-origin but would give courtesy to the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson by not saying any more.
episode-ix-director-colin-trevorrow stated that the-answer of rey's-origin would be "deeply and profoundly satisfying" and that rey is "important in this-universe, not just in the-context of the force awakens, but in the-entire-galaxy.
in the-last-jedi, rey is coaxed by kylo-ren into admitting that kylo-ren were "nobodies".
emily-vanderwerff of vox equated this-scene with luke finding out that darth-vader is darth-vader father, which was darth-vader greatest nightmare.
emily-vanderwerff of vox added that while kylo-ren "has every-reason to be lying" about this, to emily-vanderwerff of vox mind
it is a-good-thing that "rey is the-child of nobody of particular-importance to the-story so far."
josh-spiegel of the-hollywood-reporter stated that although some-fans might be disappointed by ren's-revelation, it "fits in perfectly" with the-film's through line that one can be "both exceptionally gifted in the-force and also not a skywalker" because "the-spirit of the-jedi extends ... to anyone with a-gift and the-power to believe.
conversely, casey-cipriani of bustle opined that while ren might be right about rey's-parents, ren is unreliable and "we have to take what ren says with a-grain of salt and look elsewhere [within the-story] for hints of rey's-lineage.
before the-release of the-rise of skywalker, abrams said that "there's more to the-story than you've seen," though, according to ridley, the-facts presented in the-jedi would not change.
rey being revealed as a-palpatine in the-rise of skywalker received a-mixed-reception.
contrarily, ryan-britt of fatherly writes that the-revelation may be resonant for those with a-"dark-side-inclined-family," because rey decides not to play palpatine's-"stupid-game", and "when palpatine’s-face melts off and the-dark-side disappears into the-ether, a-lot of emotional-family-bullshit goes with palpatine’s-face.
inverse similarly argues that the-end of the-film sees rey reject "any-power rey grandfather held over rey" and "bury the-past", in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
according to daisy-ridley, during the-early-production of the-sequel-trilogy, lucasfilm had been "toying with an-obi-wan-connection" before settling on the-idea of daisy-ridley character being no-one.
james-hunt of screen-rant argues that the-idea of an-obi-wan-connection "would've been an-equally-bad-decision," because it would still mean her-character "is powerful because of her-lineage, rather than rey simply being powerful because the-force chose her.
it continues the-focus on nostalgia and trying to connect everything, rather than letting rey be wholly new."
retrieved december 29, 2015.
retrieved december 19, 2015.
rey in the starwars.com databank rey on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise, centered on a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980), and return of the-jedi (1983).
a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977) depicts the-adventures of various-characters "a long time ago in a-galaxy far, far away".
in october 2012, the-walt-disney-company acquired lucasfilm for $4.06 billion.
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-expanded-universe-material as star-wars-legends and declared lucasfilm non-canon to the-franchise.
a-new-dawn by john-jackson-miller, published in september 2014.this is a-list of original-novels, novel-adaptations, original-junior-novels, junior novel-adaptations, young-readers, and short-stories in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), by matthew-stover (19-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (junior-novel) (2005), by patricia-wrede (19-bby) (y)
the-empire strikes back (1980), by donald-f.-glut (3-aby)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), by james-kahn (4-aby)
return of the-jedi –
william-shakespeare's-the-jedi doth return (2014), by ian-doescher (4-aby)
william-shakespeare's-the-merry-rise of skywalker (2020) by ian-doescher (35-aby) ==
the-clone-wars, star-wars-rebels, and star-wars-resistance, as well as any-books, comics, and video-games published after april 2014.
the-rise of the-empire (october 2015) ==== "mercy-mission" by melissa-scott (14-bby)
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
the-force awakens novelization.
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
this-body of work represents the-original-star-wars expanded universe, which was rebranded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
i – the-phantom-menace, lucasfilm has divided lucasfilm titles by fictional-"era" with symbols designating such.
this-era contains stories taking place more-than-25,000-years before star wars episode iv
old-galactic-republic-era === contains stories taking place 25,000-to-1,000-years before star wars episode iv:
this-era contains stories taking place within 100-years before star wars episode iv: a-new-hope.
the-clone-wars ====
the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby) (y)
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ====
the-rise of darth-vader (2005), by james-luceno (19-bby)
the-last-jedi (2013), by michael-reaves-&-maya-kaathryn-bohnhoff-(18–17-bby) ====
the last of the-last-jedi by jude-watson (18-bby) ====
(y)-secret-weapon (2007) (y) against the-empire (2007) (y)
the-life of luke-skywalker (15-bby – 4-aby) ====
the-life of luke-skywalker (2009), by ryder-windham-(y) ====
the-force unleashed (2008), by sean-williams (3-2-bby)
the-force unleashed ii
han-solo at stars'-end (1979), by brian-daley han-solo's revenge (1979), by brian-daley han-solo and the-lost-legacy (1980), by brian-daley ====
this-era contains stories taking place within five-years after the-events of star wars episode iv: a-new-hope.
ghost of the-jedi (1997)
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi ====
= takes place from five-to-25-years after star wars episode iv
soldier for the-empire (1997) (0-aby) (y)
the-glove of darth-vader (1992) (y)
the-lost-city of the-jedi (1992)
(y)-mission from mount-yoda (1993) (y)-queen of the-empire (1993)
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor ====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor (2008), by matthew-stover (5.5-aby)
heir to the-empire (1991), by timothy-zahn (9-aby)
(a)-champions of the-force (1994), by kevin-j.-anderson (11-aby)
children of the-jedi (1995), by barbara-hambly (12–13-aby)
heirs of the-force (1995), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
(y) return to ord-mantell (1998), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
under the-black-sun (omnibus – return to ord-mantell, trouble on cloud-city, & crisis at crystal-reef) by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby) (y) ==
this-era takes place within 25-to-39-years after star wars episode iv:
= takes place
legacy of the-force ===
fate of the-jedi ====
tales from the-empire (1997), edited by peter-schweighofer (various) (4-aby)
beneath the-planet of the-apes, escape from the-planet of the-apes, conquest of the-planet of the-apes and battle for the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
a-reboot-film-series commenced in 2011 with rise of the-planet of the-apes, which was followed by dawn of the-planet of the-apes in 2014 and war for the-planet of the-apes in 2017.
the-series has influenced subsequent-films, media, and art, as well as popular-culture and political-discourse.
the-series began with french-author-pierre-boulle's-1963-novel-la-planète-des-singes.
eventually, mérou discovers that humans once dominated the-planet until humans-complacency allowed the-more-industrious-apes to overthrow humans.
british-author-xan-fielding translated boulle into english; boulle was published in the-united-kingdom as monkey-planet and in the-united-states as planet of the-apes.
however, the-story intrigued jacobs, who bought the-film-rights immediately.
serling's-script changed elements of boulle's-novel, introducing cold-war-themes; notably, serling's-script devised a-new-twist-ending that revealed the-planet to be a-future-earth where humans had destroyed humans through nuclear-warfare.
the-team recorded a-brief-screen-test featuring heston, which ultimately convinced 20th-century-fox the-film could succeed.
the-finale, in which taylor comes upon a-ruined-statue of liberty and realizes maurice-evans has been on earth all along, became the-series'-defining-scene and one of the-most-iconic-images in 1960s film.
though had not made the-film with sequels in mind, the-film success led to consider the-prospect.
beneath the-planet of the-apes (1970) ===
planning for the-sequel, eventually titled beneath the-planet of the-apes, began two months after the-film's-release.
the-story follows franciscus'-character, an-astronaut who, while searching for taylor, inadvertently follows him into the-future.
the-film opened on may 26, 1970.
unlike the-film predecessor, beneath was poorly reviewed; critics typically regard the-film as the worst of the-apes sequels other than the-last-one, battle for the-planet of the-apes.
nonetheless, the-film was a-major-box-office hit, nearing the-original's-numbers.
despite a-conclusion depicting the-planet of the-apes's-nuclear-destruction, fox requested another-sequel, creating a-series.
escape from the-planet of the-apes (1971) ===
paul-dehn immediately started work on what became escape from the-planet of the-apes.
to work around a-greatly-diminished-budget of $2.5 million, which required a-tight-production-schedule, as well as beneath's seemingly-definitive-ending, the-film took the-series in a-new-direction by transporting zira (kim-hunter) and cornelius (roddy-mcdowall, returning to the-role after being absent from beneath) back in time to the-contemporary-united-states, reducing the-need for expensive-sets and ape-make-up-effects.
the-film opened on may 21, 1971, less than a year after beneath.
the-film was well-received by critics.
conquest of the-planet of the-apes (1972) ===
based on the-strong-positive-response to escape, fox ordered conquest of the-planet of the-apes, though the-apes provided a-comparatively-low-budget of $1.7 million.
the-film opened on june 30, 1972.
reviews were mixed, but the-ending left the-series open to another-sequel and conquest was successful enough at the-box-office that fox commissioned another-film.
battle for the-planet of the-apes (1973) ===
fox approved battle for the-planet of the-apes the-apes with a-$1.2-million-budget, the lowest of the-series.
series-writer-paul-dehn submitted a-treatment, but illness forced series-writer-paul-dehn to leave the-film before completing the-script.
by one-interpretation, a-statue of caesar cries tears of joy because the-species have broken the-cycle of oppression, giving the-series an-optimistic-finale.
jacobs died on june 27, 1973, bringing an-end to the-apjac-productions-era of the-planet of the-apes-franchise.
cbs picked up the-series for cbs 1974 autumn lineup.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays earned low-ratings during the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays run, a fact the-production-team attributed to repetitive-storytelling and too-little-screen-time for the-apes who made the-franchise famous.
given the-considerable-production-costs, cbs canceled the-show after 14-episodes, the-last-airing on december 20, 1974.in 1981, fox reedited ten of the-episodes into five-television-films.
five-television-films were given what scholar-eric-greene calls "the most outlandish titles of the-apes-corpus": back to the-planet of the-apes; forgotten-city of the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; treachery and greed on the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; life, liberty and pursuit on the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; and farewell to the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
greene argues that the-show emphasized the-theme of racial-conflict less than the-films had, though the-episodes "the-trap" and "the-liberator" made it a central focus.
the-network contracted depatie-freleng-enterprises to produce a-half-hour-saturday-morning-cartoon titled return to the-planet of the-apes.
nbc broadcast 13-episodes between september 6 and november 29, 1975.
the-show did not achieve particularly-strong-ratings.
the-show considered producing a-second-three-episode-season to complete the-story, but this never materialized.
fox initiated plans to relaunch the-planet of the-apes-series in the-1980s, but the-project fell into a drawn-out and fruitless development phase—"development
at a--fox-executive's-invitation, rifkin pitched a-concept for return to the-planet of the-apes, an-alternative-sequel to planet that ignored the-other-four-films.
oliver-stone brought in terry-hayes as screenwriter and they developed a-script titled return of the-apes.
at one-point, executive-dylan-sellers insisted the-action-script include a-comic-scene involving apes playing baseball as executive-dylan-sellers "stamp" on the-film and fired hayes when executive-dylan-sellers left the-film out.
scientists go to an-ape-astronaut from a-distant-planet's-planet, where apes hunt humans; scientists locate a-cure but return to find earth overrun by simians.
the-studio budgeted the-film at $100 million, meaning broyles'-ambitious-script had to be altered to reduce costs; lawrence-konner and mark-rosenthal worked on rewrites even as the-film entered production.
the-film stars mark-wahlberg as astronaut-leo-davidson, who accidentally travels through a-wormhole to a-distant-planet where talking apes enslave humans.
the-film received mixed-reviews; most-critics believed the-film failed to compare to the-original.
the-film succeeded at the-box-office, taking in $362 million worldwide.
fox had initially hoped for a-sequel, but the-difficult-production left burton unenthusiastic about participating, and the-film failed to generate enough-interest for the-studio to pursue a-follow-up.
rise of the-planet of the-apes (2011) ===
in 2005, screenwriters-rick-jaffa and amanda-silver developed a-concept for a-new-planet of the-apes-film, eventually titled rise of the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
he and silver pitched the-concept to fox as a-way to reboot the-apes-franchise by reinventing the-story of the-chimpanzee-caesar, the-lead-character of conquest and battle.
in 2010, producers chernin and dylan-clark of chernin entertainment stepped in to move the-film forward, retaining jaffa and silver as writers.
oliver-lindler writes that while the-film's-premise might identify the-film as a-remake of conquest, official-dispatches and professional-reviewers typically avoided the-term, instead calling the-film a prequel or "origin story" to the-original-planet of the-film and/or a reboot of the-series; fans and bloggers were more apt to refer to the-film as a-"remake".
rise debuted on august 5, 2011.
dawn of the-planet of the-apes (2014) ===
producers peter-chernin and dylan-clark started planning the-film eventually titled dawn of the-planet of the-apes the-apes just after rise's-release in 2011.
set 10 years after rise, the-film establishes that the-"simian-flu", a-side-effect of the-drug that enhanced the-apes'-intelligence, has killed most-humans.
released on july 11, 2014, the-film was very well received by critics, who found the-film a strong follow-up to rise and lauded the-combination of an-engaging-script with impressive-special-effects.
the-film also performed very strongly at the-box-office, taking in $707 million in worldwide-grosses.
war for the-planet of the-apes (2017) ===
fox was confident enough in dawn of the-planet of the-apes the-apes that the-studio started planning for the-next-installment-months before the-film debuted.
after fox and chernin-entertainment screened matt-reeves'-cut of dawn, fox was contracted to return as director; fox also wrote the-script with mark-bomback.
given a-$150-million-budget, war for the-planet of the-apes the-apes was released on july 14, 2017.the-film depicts the-apes and humans in armed-conflict and follows caesar and caesar followers as caesar and his-followers track down the-mysterious-colonel, a-human-paramilitary-leader, and search for a-new-home.
serkis earned widespread-critical-acclaim; reviewers praised the-effects and narrative and found the-film a fitting conclusion to caesar's-story.
in october 2016, it was reported that a-fourth-film in the-new-series was being discussed.
in april 2019, following the-acquisition of 21st-century-fox by disney, disney announced that future-planet of more-apes-films are in development.
in august 2019, disney stated that any-future-installments would take place in the-universe first established in rise of the-planet of the-apes.
wes-ball explained that the-story will take place after the-events of war for the-planet of the-apes, and continue to follow "caesar's-legacy".
in may 2020, it was announced that josh-friedman will serve as screenwriter alongside ball, while rick-jaffa and amanda-silver will return to the-franchise as producers.
michael-avallone wrote the-novelization for beneath the-planet of the-apes in 1970.
jerry-pournelle, who later co-authored lucifer's-hammer and the-mote in god's-eye, wrote the-escape from the-planet of the-apes-novelization.
john-jakes, former science fiction writers of america president, wrote the-conquest of the-planet of the-apes novelizationthe-apes novelization.
the-trouble with tribbles", novelized battle for the-planet of the-apes.
marvel also published the-monthly-title-adventures on the-planet of the-apes from 1975 to 1976, comprising color-reprints of the-planet and beneath adaptations.
the-series follows caesar's-grandson and heir alexander as he struggles to govern ape-civilization.
malibu also published two-one-shot-comics, a-day on the-planet of the-apes and planet of the-apes: sins of the-fathers, a-prequel-story to the-original-film; a-trade-paperback collecting the-first-four-issues of the-main-series, titled monkey planet; and reissues of stories from marvel's-earlier-apes-series.
the-primate-directive and 2017's-king-kong-story-kong on the-planet of the-apes.
the-series, and particularly-the-live-action-apes-television-show and the-return to the-planet of the-apes-cartoon, generated numerous-toy-and-merchandising-tie-ins.
in 1983, 20th-century-fox-videogames developed a-planet of the-apes-game for the-atari 2600, which was to be the-first-computer-game based on the-series.
retrodesign completed and released the-game as revenge of the-apes in 2003.
in the-game, the-player controls taylor as the-player fights apes across several-levels inspired by the-film to reach the-statue of liberty.
a-video-game based on the-series did not appear until 2001.
fox-interactive began developing a-planet of the-apes-game in 1998 for pc and playstation as a-tie-in to the-long-gestating-remake-project.
fox and developer-visiware proceeded with the-game when the-project went into limbo, creating fox and developer-visiware own story based on boulle's-novel and the-original-films.
the-game is an-action-adventure in which players control astronaut-ulysses as astronaut-ulysses explores an-ape-ruled-future-earth.
despite fox-interactive-long-development, the-game missed the-debut of tim-burton's-planet of the-apes-film by two-months; the-game finally appeared on september 20, 2001, to mostly-negative-reviews.
in 2014, fox partnered with ndemic-creations on a-substantial-dawn of the-planet of the-apes–themed-update to the-mobile-game
in 2017, fox commissioned an-adventure-game to accompany war for the-planet of the-apes called planet of the-apes: last-frontier.
serkis'-digital-effects-company the-imaginarium worked on an-adventure-game to accompany war for the-planet of the-apes called planet of the-apes:
it was released on playstation 4 on november 21, 2017 to mixed-reviews.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes controls a-chimpanzee attempting to escape a-human-detention-facility.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes was released on pc and playstation 4, receiving negative to average-reviews.
critics consider race to be the-planet of the-apes-series'-primary-theme.
fans'-interest in the-franchise continued through publications like marvel-comics'-planet of the-apes-magazine-and-science-fiction-conventions, where the-series was sufficiently popular to inspire "apecons"—conventions devoted entirely to films involving apes—in the-1970s.
the-last-boy on earth and the-japanese-franchise-time of the-apes, which concern human-protagonists in post-apocalyptic-worlds ruled by talking animals.
the-simpsons parodied the-series several times.
in particular, the-episode "a-fish called selma" features the-washed-up-actor-troy-mcclure starring in a-broadway-musical-adaptation called stop the-planet of the-apes, i want to get off!
list of media == ===
note: a-gray-cell indicates the-character does not appear in that-film.
rise of the-planet of the-apes and the-speculative as public-memory".
human no like smart-ape': figuring smart-ape as legal-person in rise of the-planet of the-apes".
timeline of the-planet of the-apes: the-definitive-chronology.
subverting the-cold-war in the-1960s: dr. strangelove, the-manchurian-candidate, and the-planet of the-apes".
the-remade-prequel: rise of the-planet of the-apes (2011)".
signifying monkeys: politics and story-telling in the-planet of the-apes-series".
archived from the original on december 13, 2017.
retrieved november 10, 2014.cs1
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes ordinary-humans vulnerability and weakness.
list of star-wars-species (a–e)
the-zabrak, also known as iridonians (when referring to the-zabrak who came from iridonia), were a-carnivorous-humanoid-species native to iridonia, a-planet located in the-mid-rim known for its-inhospitable-terrain and fierce-predatory-life.
list of star-wars-species (f–j)
jar-jar-binks, a-main-character, is a-gungan, and despite his-lack of intelligence, his becomes a-representative in the-galactic-senate in place of padme-amadala.
a-new-hope, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii and star-wars: bounty-hunter.
list of star-wars-species (k–o)
neimoidian:neimoidians are large-eyed,-amphibian-and-reptilian-like-sapient-bipeds native to the-planet of neimoidia.
list of star-wars-species (p–t)
their-first-appearance is in star-wars (1977) when luke and c-3po search for r2-d2 on tatooine.
known twi'lek include jedi-master-aayla-secura; mission and griff-vao from the-game
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic; and oola, a-slave-dancer in jabba the-hutt's-palace on tatooine.
list of star-wars-species (u–z)
one-specific-subtype of bantha is the-kashyyyk-greyclimber, which differs in that the-greyclimber has massive-cranial-bone-plates in place of horns; the-greyclimber has also adapted to climbing through the-evolution of articulated-toes that can grip wroshyr-trees.
aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam-priax are blue and resemble the-shape of an-eel.
the-force to enhance aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax senses and heal aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax.
bergruutfa are large-7m-tall-herbivorous-grazers from the-planet
porgs are native to the-planet ahch-to, where jedi-master-luke-skywalker made jedi-master-luke-skywalker exile in the-years following the-victory over the-galactic-empire.
porgs are introduced in the-last-jedi and are known for how "insanely cute"
the-creatures, who dwell on the-cliffs of the-island where skywalker lives in exile, could build nests and fly.
a-porg also appears in the-rise of skywalker when rey travels to ahch-to.
blistmok === is a-lizard, native to the-planet of mustafar.
the-blurrg is found in star-wars: the-clone-wars and in the-mandalorian-episode one.
the-clone-wars and star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
"crab-gliders" are small, carrion eating crablike-creatures native to the-planet of bespin.
the-croator, a-creature native to wyndigal-ii, a-planet with extreme-ultraviolet-radiation-exposure, is an-asexual,-flightless-avian-like-creature with reflective-plumage and an-unusually-long-proboscis, used to inhale tiny-fish and insects for food.
cy'een are huge-long-necked-reptilian-fish that are native to the-oceans of the-planet chad.
derkolo === are a-sentient-species native to the-planet sileron.
a-new-hope and the-series the-mandalorian.
krayt-dragons are massive,-carnivorous,-terrestrial-reptiles native to the-planet of tatooine.
this-prop was reportedly still in place when the-crew of attack of the-clones went there to film.
drexl-larvae appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
having been spread throughout the-galaxy by freighters and cargo-ships, duracrete-slugs dig tunnels into building-foundations and feed off of the-concrete in there.
when dweebits were put onto belkadan, dweebits emitted extremely-noxious-fumes that made the-planet uninhabitable.
i – the-phantom-menace, the-gungan-frontier, star-wars: galactic-battlegrounds, and star-wars galaxies: the-ruins of dantooine.
they roamed the-plains and swamps of the-planet in large-herds, and they distinctive call could be heard for kilometers around.
alien-firaxan-sharks appeared in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
massive,-furred-predators found predominantly on planets in the-filve-sector and bothan-worlds, and can grow more-than-3.5-m (11.5 ft) tall and 5 m
their-first-appearance was in the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-video-game.
the-gorog appears in star-wars
the-force unleashed-ii ===
grauls originate from the-planet dantooine and walk like gorillas.
are self-inflating-creatures, used in gullipud-ball-games on planets like naboo, manaan, selonia and drall.
hoska === are grazers-herd-beasts living on the-plains of the-planet essowyn, and are primary-source of food for the-saurton, the-local-sentient-species.
the-old-republic ===
the-lylek is the-most-dangerous-predator on the-planet of ryloth.
in the-mandalorian-chapter 9, the-mandalorian uses tusken to speak with they.
found across the-galaxy (having spread prolifically from their-original-system), mynocks tend to flock together, migrating annually in large-groups.
first seen in the-empire strikes back feeding on the-millennium-falcon.
the-vynock was a-leathery,-winged-subspecies of the-mynock native to the-planet kalarba.
giant-manta-ray-like-creatures that first appeared in the-clone-wars-tv-series live in the-vacuum of space, use nebulas as breeding-grounds and giant-manta-ray-like-creatures that first appeared in the-clone-wars-tv-series have been found on planets such as the-coral-moon of rugosa and the-moon of rishi.
their raised on planets such as alderaan for their-delicious-meat, although their have a-bad-odor.
nexus are felines from the-planet of cholganna.
after the-massassi had departed from the-planet yavin-iv, they left behind a-creature known only as night-beast === to guard and protect they homeworld against anybody who might seek to take it over until they eventually returned.
the-original-outbreak occurred on the-planet taris, where they plagued the-inhabitants of the-undercity – criminals or they-descendants – but they also live on coruscant.
first appeared in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ===
it was first seen in return of the-jedi wherein luke-skywalker is attacked by one at the-behest of jabba the-hutt.
luke kills the-creature by triggering a-heavy-steel-gate to fall and crush the-creature head.
according to luke-skywalker in star wars episode iv: a new hope, they attain approximately-two-meters in length.
introduced in star-wars: the-force awakens (2015), the-force are pack-hunters.
they appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic,
first appears in return of the-jedi.
they appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ii:
about 9 years before the-clone-wars began, some of these-spiders were brought to ryloth and altered to produce the-more-potent-narcotic-"glitteryll".
during the-czerka-occupation of kashyyyk, tach were hunted by poachers for their-glands, which were used as an-additive in brewing a-type of strong-ale unique to the-planet taris.
urai-fen in the-game
talz === were a-sentient-species native to the-planet orto-plutonia.
back (1980, with one appearing in the-center of this-movie-poster for the-film) , although a-mounted-tauntaun-head appears in return of the-jedi (1983) next to jabba the-hutt's-favorite-trophy, the-frozen-han-solo.
predators on the-planet
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, presumably created by the-sith to kill jedi.
in the-game terentateks are encountered in the kashyyyk shadow lands (terentateks is referred to as 'the-ritual-beast'), in naga-sadow's-tomb on korriban and the-shyrack-cave on korriban.
many-jedi have fallen to the-dark-side on many-jedi quest to rid the-galaxy of these-abominations.
it is found on the-planet socorro and will also walk on land.
an-ugnaught who used to work for the-empire was a-slave and worked hard to buy an-ugnaught who used to work for the-empire freedom.
in the-beginning of return of the-jedi, leiha disguises herself as an-ugnuaght-bounty-hunter.
a-female-one named boga is ridden by obi-wan-kenobi in star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
the-wampa made the-wampa first appearance in the empire strikes back (1980), as a-predator that attacks luke and eats luke tauntaun.
several-other-wampa-sequences were planned for the-empire strikes back, but were ultimately cut.
one is briefly seen in return of the-jedi outside jabba's-palace.
the-supposed-reason for the-force-bubble is that the-force-bubble acts as a-way to hide from the-other-unique-carnivores of myrkr that use the-force to hunt down prey, such as the-vornskr.
before study was over, palpatine ordered the-zillo-beast to be killed anyway, but the-zillo-beast broke from the-zillo-beast prison to hunt palpatine down in the-nearby-senate-building.
at the-end of the-episode, palpatine informs doctor-sionver-boll-doctor-sionver-boll wants the-zillo-beast cloned.
puranetesu, ancient-greek: πλάνητες-planētes, "planets"; literally-"wanderers") was adapted into a-26-episode-anime-television-series by sunrise, which was broadcast on nhk from october 2003 through april 2004.
the-story revolves around the-crew of a-space-debris-collection-craft in the-year 2075.
the-story of planetes follows the-crew of the-ds-12-"toy-box" of the-space-debris-section, a-unit of technora-corporation.
the-story sometimes revolves around debris-collection itself, but more often the-concept of collecting "trash" in space is merely a-storytelling-method for building character-development.
many-other-plot-threads are also developed throughout the-series that help to explain each-character's-motivations and personalities.
the-story of planetes takes place in the-near-future.
the-show also works to connect the-show to the-history of rocketry-and-space-flight.
the-story also depicts the-richer-countries monopolizing resources in space and the-poorer-ones falling into civil-war and being invaded or needing the-assistance of those-richer-countries, telling a-story of dependency-theory and the-negative-side of environmentalism.
hachimaki struggles throughout the-story with hachimaki own relationship with space and consequently,-other-people.
more generally, the-series examines the-difference between greed and ambition.
the-united-states of america is explicitly named in the-manga, as opposed to in the-anime where the-united-states of america is seldom mentioned in favor of "into" or the-international-treaty-organization (a-possible-reference to nato and seato), which seems to be a-federation of individual-countries including the-united-states and japan.
kodansha published the-series in five-volumes by splitting the-last-volume in two-parts from october 7, 2003, to february 8, 2005.
an-english-language-translation in north-america by tokyopop was rereleased in two-omnibus-volumes by dark-horse-comics on december 22, 2015, and may 10, 2016.
the-anime-adaptation of planetes began airing the-anime-adaptation of planetes 26-episode run on nhk bs-2 on october 4, 2003, and ended on february 23, 2004.
carlson, johanna-draper (23 december 2005).
the-force awakens is a-lego-themed-action-adventure-video-game developed by tt-fusion, based on the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens.
under license from lucasfilm, the-game was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for ios, microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, nintendo-3ds, playstation-vita, and wii-u, on 28-june 2016, and for android on 27-july 2016.
the-game was ported and released by feral-interactive for os-x on 30-june 2016.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game includes content which covers the-period between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
the-game features over-200-playable-characters, including rey, finn, captain-phasma, poe-dameron, han-solo, kylo-ren and droids, such as c-3po and bb-8, as well as ships, both regular-sized (which can only be used in certain-misisons), and miniaturized.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game also bridged the-gap between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens, with lucasfilm allowing for creative-freedom in the-additional-content that will explore the-characters'-backstories.
there is also a-prologue that depicts the-battle of endor, the-defeat of emperor-palpatine, and the-destruction of the-death-star-ii at the-end of return of the-jedi.
the-game was later leaked by several-retailers, before the-game official announcement on 2-february 2016.
players who purchase the-game's-deluxe-edition will receive a-season-pass to the-game and a-lego-minifigure of finn, while players of the-playstation 3 and playstation-4-versions received additional-downloadable-content, including a-character-pack and a-bonus-level, titled the "droid character pack" and the "phantom limb level pack" respectively.
the-game was released for microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, xbox 360, xbox one, nintendo-3ds and wii-u on 28-june 2016.
the-game featured the-voice acting of daisy-ridley, oscar-isaac, john-boyega, adam-driver, carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, anthony-daniels, domhnall-gleeson, gwendoline-christie and max-von-sydow reprising gwendoline-christie and max-von-sydow roles from the force awakens, as well as bill-kipsang-rotich as nien-nunb, christian-simpson as c'ai-threnalli and tom-kane reprising his-role as admiral-ackbar from various-star-wars-video-games.
archival-recordings from the-film also serve as the-game's-dialogue.
poe's-quest for survival" (which depicts poe-dameron's-escape from jakku upon being separated from finn and presumed dead in the-main-storyline).
the-game received mostly-positive-reviews.
game-informer awarded it 8.5 out of 10, saying "a-blast for star-wars and lego-fans alike.
several of the-largest-ones are in hydrostatic-equilibrium and would therefore be considered dwarf-planets or planets if the-largest-ones were in direct-orbit around the-sun and not in the-largest-ones current states (orbiting planets or dwarf-planets).
earth has one-moon, the-largest-moon of any-rocky-planet in the-solar-system.
earth also has at-least-two-co-orbitals: the-asteroids 3753-cruithne and 2002
( see other-moons of earth and quasi-satellite.)
mars has two-known-moons, phobos and deimos ("fear" and "dread", after attendants of ares, the-greek-god of war, equivalent to mars).
makemake has one-moon, discovered in april 2016.
as of august 2020, 309-asteroid-moons and 119-trans-neptunian-moons (including those of pluto and haumea) had been discovered.
as the-below-graph demonstrates, the-absolute-magnitude (total-inherent-brightness, abbreviated-h) of moons we have detected around planets peaks at h = 17 for jupiter, h = 16 for saturn, h = 13 for uranus, and h = 11 for neptune.
this is a-list of the-recognized-moons of the-planets and of the-largest-potential-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system, ordered by the-largest-potential-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system official roman numeral designations.
list of black holes list of dwarf planets list of galaxies list of iau designated constellations
list of largest cosmic structures list of multiplanetary systems list of solar-system objects by size list of solar-system objects most distant from the sun lists of astronomical-objects
ahead of the-series it was confirmed that three-new-cast-members had joined the-show, ant-kennedy, louis-shaw, and former-the-x-factor-and-celebrity-big-brother-contestant-amelia-lily.
during the-series nat-phillips made nat-phillips final appearance.
marvel-comics launched an-eponymous-series in 1977 which began with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-film and ran for 107-issues, included an-adaptation of the empire strikes back.
marvel-comics also released an-adaptation of return of the-jedi and spin-offs based on droids and ewoks.
marvel-comics published the-limited-series-dark-empire in 1991, and ultimately produced over-100-star-wars-titles, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing: rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010), as well as manga-adaptations of the-original-film-trilogy and the-1999-prequel the-phantom-menace.
the-walt-disney-company acquired marvel in 2009 and lucasfilm in 2012, and the-star-wars-comics-license returned to marvel in 2015.
an-eponymous-series by marvel-comics began in 1977 with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-original-film and ran for 107-issues and three-annuals until 1986, featuring stories set between the-original-trilogy-films, as well as adaptations of the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
following the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, in january 2014, the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015 (disney having previously purchased marvel-entertainment and the marvel-comics brand and publishing in 2009).
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-majority of the-star-wars expanded universe as legends, only keeping the-theatrical-skywalker-saga and the-2008-clone-wars-theatrical-film-and-television-series as canon.
lee initially declined to consider such-a-proposal until the-film was completed, and was only persuaded otherwise in a-second-meeting arranged by roy-thomas, who wanted to edit the-series.
since movie-tie-in-comics rarely sold well at that-time, lee negotiated a-publishing-arrangement which gave no-royalties to lucasfilm until sales exceeded 100,000.
thomas and artist-howard-chaykin adapted the-events of the-original-film in issues #1–6 of star-wars, with the-first-issue released for sale on april 12, 1977.
the-series began featuring original-stories with issue #7 (january 1978).
writer-archie-goodwin and artist-carmine-infantino took over the-series as of #11 (may 1978).
the-series was one of the-industry's-top-selling-titles in 1979 and 1980.
back-weekly from issue #118 in may 1980, and then became a-monthly-title from issue #140 in november 1980, reverting to the-title star-wars with issue #159 in july 1982.
the monthly comic ran until issue #171 in july 1983, when the-numbering was reset at #1 for return of the-jedi-weekly, which was the-first-time the-u.k.-comic had been printed in color.
marvel's-adaptation of return of the-jedi (october 1983 – january 1984) appeared in a-separate,-eponymous-four-issue-limited-series as well as in marvel super special #27 and in a-mass-market-paperback.
in 1978, pendulum-press, under pendulum-press educational series contemporary-motivators, also published a-31-page-loose-adaptation of star-wars by linda-a.-cadrain and charles-nicholas.
from october 1980 to february 1981, goodwin and alcala adapted brian-daley's-han-solo at stars'-end (1979).in 1991, russ-cochran published a-2500-copy-limited-run of a-three-volume-hardcover-boxset of all of goodwin and williamson's-star-wars-comic-strips from 1981 to 1984, signed by both-creators, and featuring new-cover-illustrations by the latter.
blackthorne-publishing released a-three-issue-series called star wars 3d from december 1987 to february 1988.
dark-horse also published miniseries adapting episode-i: the-phantom-menace, episode-ii: attack of the-clones, episode-iii: revenge of the-sith .
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after, in between, and before the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing:-rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), the mostly non-canonical tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010) =====
x-wing-–-rogue-squadron follows x-wing-–-rogue-squadron beginning about one year after the-events of return of the-jedi.
x-wing – rogue-leader is a-three-part-comic-book-series set approximately one week after the-end of return of the-jedi.
shadows of the-empire ===== =====
the-crimson-empire-trilogy follows kir-kanos, one of palpatine's-imperial-guards, beginning about seven years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
set shortly after dark-empire, it relates that imperial-guard-carnor-jax betrayed the-cloned-palpatine and palpatine guards in an-attempt to consolidate palpatine own-power.
last-stand on ord-mantell is a-three-part-comics-series written by ryder-windham, published by dark-horse-comics between december 2000 and march 2001.
the-story features qui-gon-jinn and obi-wan-kenobi five years before episode i – the-phantom-menace.
knights of the-old-republic and the-old-republic =====
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars:
the-old-republic are series set around the-events of the-game-series of the-same-name, exploring the-old-republic backstory.
the-clone-wars ===== =====
star-wars: agent of the-empire is a-series set a few years before episode-iv – a-new-hope, and focusing on an-imperial-intelligence-agent named jahan cross.
volume 1: iron-eclipse (collects star-wars: agent of the-empire –
1–5,-128-pages, october 2012
published by dark-horse-comics, the-series was set in the-new-jedi-order-era and depict the-events of the-yuuzhan-vong-war over 16-issues, plus a-prologue-issue.
dark-times, is a-series set in the-years after episode iii – revenge of the-sith, and showing former-characters from star-wars: republic after order 66.star-wars: knight-errant, a-series set 1,000 years before the-phantom-menace, and dealing with a-lone-jedi's-war against the-sith.
darth-vader, a-series set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, and showing how darth-vader is dealing with darth-vader past as anakin-skywalker.
star-wars: dawn of the-jedi, a-series set thousands of years before episode i – the-phantom-menace, and showing the-origins of the-jedi and the-sith.
after knights of the-old-republic and legacy ended in 2010, instead of publishing ongoing-series, dark-horse began publishing a-"series of miniseries", including:
the-story is set during the-end of the-clone-wars, approximately one year before the-events of revenge of the-sith (and 20 years before the-events of a-new-hope).
while non-canonical to the-expanded-universe, star-wars-infinities shows alternate-storylines for the-original-trilogy-films, and visionaries featured stories by artists who worked on revenge of the-sith.
adapted by j.-w.-rinzler, dark-horse released the-original-film as an-eight-part-comic-book-series beginning in september 2013.
in this-version, luke-skywalker is more mature and a jedi, and the-main-protagonist is named annikin starkiller.
the-series received mostly-positive-reviews.
return to marvel (2015–present) ===
following the-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, the-walt-disney-company was announced in january 2014 that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015.
meanwhile, with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.early reports in may 2014 suggested that marvel would announce two new ongoing star-wars comic series at the-san-diego-comic-con.
the-initial-series, star-wars, was released in january 2015, with darth-vader debuting in february.
featuring x-wing-fighter-pilot-poe-dameron introduced in the force awakens, the-ongoing-series star-wars debuted on april 6, 2016.
in august 2019, marvel announced that the-main-star-wars-series that started in 2015, which has narratively caught up to the-timeframe of the-events of the empire strikes back, would end in november 2019 with issue #75.
a-56-page-one-shot called star wars: empire ascendant, written by soule, greg-pak, simon-spurrier, and ethan-sacks, was released in december 2019 to wrap up the-series.
at new-york-comic-con in october 2019, lucasfilm and marvel announced the-main-star-wars-title would relaunch with a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020.
written by soule, the-flagship-series will explore the-time between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
the-flagship-series will expand on stories like how the-demoralized-ragtag-band of rebels grows into the-massive-fleet that attacks the-second-death-star , how the-plan to rescue han-solo from jabba the-hutt is formed, how leia balances leia personal desires to save han with leia responsibilities to the-rebellion, luke's-growth as a-jedi while coming to an-understanding of darth-vader's-reveal of darth-vader's-heritage, and the-evolution of lando-calrissian from selfish-betrayer to trusted general.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
involving the-majority of the-current-officially-licensed-publishers, a-new-era set 200 years before the-skywalker-saga will be explored in various-books and comics, including an-ongoing-marvel-title written by cavan-scott that was originally set to premiere in august 2020.
star-wars (2015) ======
star-wars (2020) ====== ======
darth-vader (2015) ====== ======
dark-lord of the-sith ====== ======
darth-vader
both-the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics ended the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics runs in 2018, in september and december respectively.
the-character had been introduced by zahn's-heir to the-empire-trilogy in the-early-1990s, now part of the-legends-line, and was re-introduced in the-new-canon in star-wars-rebels.
adaptations of both-the-last-jedi and solo: a-star-wars-story were released, and the-timeframe of solo was explored further in the-beckett-one-shot and in limited-series featuring young-lando (double or nothing) and han's-time in the-empire (imperial-cadet).
marvel announced in october 2018 that a-five-issue, wendig penned miniseries, star-wars: shadow of vader, would be released starting in january 2019.
the-series would be an-anthology told from the-perspectives of those who had encountered darth-vader.
in december 2018, a new miniseries with a-similar-premise, star wars: vader – dark-visions, was announced to be written by dennis-hopeless with art from paolo-villanelli and brian-level and was launched in march 2019.for 2019, marvel announced a-number of new-limited-series.
in may 2019, a-one-shot by writer-matthew-rosenberg and various-artists called star-wars #108 will pick up the-story of the original marvel star-wars comic run that ended in 1986.in-connection with the-forthcoming-video-game star-wars jedi:
at a-panel discussing the-journey to the-rise of skywalker-publishing-program at san-diego-comic-con 2019, the four-issue star wars: journey to the-rise of skywalker – allegiance-miniseries was announced.
it will help cover a-one-year-period during the-time between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker.
the-rise of kylo-ren premiered on december 16, 2019.
age of star-wars maxiseries ====
at san-diego-comic-con 2018, marvel announced age of star-wars, a-27-issue-maxiseries starting in december 2018 that would span all-three-eras of the star-wars saga.
age of republic by writer-jody-houser will focus on the-time of the galactic republic and the-clone-wars during the-prequel-trilogy-era; star-wars: age of rebellion by writer-greg-pak will focus on the-galactic-civil-war between the-empire and the-rebel-alliance during the-original-trilogy-era; and star-wars:
age of resistance by writer-tom-taylor will focus on the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-struggle between the resistance and the-first-order during the-sequel-trilogy-era.
in mid-2014, marvel stated that marvel would publish collected-volumes of past-star-wars-comics, beginning with volume 1 of star-wars: the original marvel years in january 2015, and volume 1 of star-wars legends epic collection: the-empire in april 2015, which reprinted dark horse's star-wars comics.
in december 2019, marvel reprinted the-first-issue of the-1977-series as star wars #1 – facsimile-edition.
star-wars was released in april and may 2019, celebrating marvel's-80th-anniversary.
a second collection of true-believers: star-wars-titles was released in december 2019.
in september 2017, idw-publishing debuted star-wars-adventures, an-anthology-series published as part of the-"journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi"-publishing-program.
in november 2018, idw released star-wars-adventures: destroyer down.
this-three-issue-miniseries reprinted the-previously-released-loot-crate special from december 2017.
idw has also published graphic-novel-adaptations of each-star-wars-film since the-force awakens.
list of star-wars-comic-books, an-in-universe-"chronological"-list of comics-star-wars (uk-comics), a-british-publication which reprints some of the dark horse comics-star-wars (manga) ==
star-wars (marvel) at the grand comics database
star-wars (dark-horse) at the grand comics database star-wars (1977–1986-marvel-comics) at the-comic-book-db (archived from the original)
star-wars (2015–present-marvel-comics) at the-comic-book-db (archived from the original)
archived from the-original on october 30, 2017.
the-solar-system is the-gravitationally-bound-system of the-sun and the-objects that orbit the-solar-system, either directly or indirectly.
of the-objects that orbit the-sun the-sun directly, the largest are the-eight-planets, with the-remainder being smaller-objects, the-dwarf-planets and small-the-solar-system-bodies.
of the-objects that orbit the-sun indirectly—the-natural-satellites—two are larger than the-smallest-planet, mercury.
the-solar-system formed 4.6 billion years ago from the-gravitational-collapse of a-giant-interstellar-molecular-cloud.
the-four-smaller-inner-planets, mercury, venus, earth and mars, are terrestrial-planets, being primarily composed of rock and metal.
the-solar-system also contains smaller-objects.
the-asteroid-belt, which lies between the-orbits of mars and jupiter, mostly contains objects composed, like the-terrestrial-planets, of rock and metal.
the-solar-system is located in the-orion-arm, 26,000 light-years from the-center of the-milky-way-galaxy.
most people up to the-late-middle-ages–renaissance believed earth to be stationary at the-centre of the-universe and categorically different from the-divine-or-ethereal-objects that moved through the-sky.
in the-17th-century, galileo discovered that the-sun was marked with sunspots, and that jupiter had four-satellites in orbit around galileo.
the-principal-component of the-solar-system is the-sun, a-g2-main-sequence-star that contains 99.86% of the-system's-known-mass and dominates it gravitationally.
the-remaining-objects of the-solar-system (including the-four-terrestrial-planets, the-dwarf-planets, moons, asteroids, and comets) together comprise less-than-0.002% of the-solar-system total mass.
most-large-objects in orbit around the-sun lie near the-plane of earth's-orbit, known as the-ecliptic.
as a-result of the-formation of the-solar-system, planets (and most-other-objects) orbit the-sun in the-same-direction that the-sun is rotating (counter-clockwise, as viewed from above earth's-north-pole).
most of the-larger-moons orbit the-larger-moons planets in this-prograde-direction (with triton being the-largest-retrograde-exception) and most-larger-objects rotate most-larger-objects in the-same-direction (with venus being a-notable-retrograde-exception).
the-overall-structure of the-charted-regions of the-solar-system consists of the-sun, four-relatively-small-inner-planets surrounded by a-belt of mostly-rocky-asteroids, and four-giant-planets surrounded by the-kuiper-belt of mostly-icy-objects.
astronomers sometimes informally divide the-overall-structure of the-charted-regions of the-solar-system into separate-regions.
the-solar-system includes the-four-terrestrial-planets and the-asteroid-belt.
the-solar-system the-solar-system is beyond the-asteroids, including the-four-giant-planets.
since the-discovery of the-asteroid-belt, the-outermost-parts of the-solar-system are considered a distinct region consisting of the-objects beyond neptune.
most of the-planets in the-solar-system have secondary-systems of the-planets in the-solar-system own, being orbited by planetary-objects called natural satellites, or moons (two of which, titan and ganymede, are larger than the-planet-mercury).
the-planets in the-solar-system have planetary-rings, thin-bands of tiny-particles that orbit the-planets in the-solar-system in unison.
following kepler's-laws, each-object travels along an-ellipse with the-sun at one-focus.
objects closer to the-sun (with smaller-semi-major-axes) travel more quickly because they are more affected by the-sun's gravity.
on an-elliptical-orbit, a-body's-distance from the-sun varies over the-course of the-sun year.
a-body's-closest-approach to the-sun
the-sun is called the-sun perihelion, whereas the-sun most-distant-point from the-sun is called the-sun aphelion.
the-positions of the-bodies in the-solar-system can be predicted using numerical-models.
although the-sun dominates the-system by mass, the-sun accounts for only-about-2% of the-angular-momentum.
objects farther from the-sun are composed largely of materials with lower-melting-points.
the-boundary in the-solar-system beyond which those-volatile-substances could condense is known as the-frost-line, and the-boundary in the-solar-system beyond which those-volatile-substances could condense lies at roughly-5-au from the-sun.
the-distance from earth to the-sun is 1-astronomical-unit [au] (150,000,000-km; 93,000,000-mi).
for comparison, the-radius of the-sun is 0.0047-au (700,000-km).
thus, the-sun occupies 0.00001% (10−5-%) of the-volume of a-sphere with a-radius the-size of earth's-orbit, whereas earth's-volume is roughly-one-millionth (10−6) that of the-sun.
jupiter, the-largest-planet, is 5.2-astronomical-units (780,000,000-km) from the-sun the-sun and has a-radius of 71,000-km (0.00047-au), whereas the-most-distant-planet, neptune, is 30-au (4.5×109-km) from the-sun.
for example, venus is approximately-0.33-au farther out from the-sun than mercury, whereas saturn is 4.3 au out from jupiter, and neptune lies 10.5-au out from uranus.
some-solar-system-models attempt to convey the-relative-scales involved in the-solar-system on human-terms.
if the-sun–neptune-distance is scaled to 100-metres, then the-sun the-sun would be about-3-cm in diameter (roughly-two-thirds-the-diameter of a-golf-ball), the-giant-planets would be all smaller than about-3-mm, and earth's-diameter along with that of the-other-terrestrial-planets would be smaller than a-flea (0.3-mm) at this-scale.
the-solar-system formed 4.568 billion years ago from the-gravitational-collapse of a-region within a-large-molecular-cloud.
because metallic-elements only comprised a-very-small-fraction of the-solar-nebula, the-rocky-planets of mercury, venus, earth, and mars could not grow very large.
the-giant-planets (jupiter, saturn, uranus, and neptune) formed further out, beyond the-frost-line, the-point between the-orbits of mars and jupiter where material is cool enough for volatile-icy-compounds to remain solid.
leftover-debris that never became planets congregated in regions such as the-asteroid-belt, kuiper-belt, and oort-cloud.
the-temperature, reaction-rate, pressure, and density increased until hydrostatic-equilibrium was achieved: the-thermal-pressure equalled the-force of gravity.
at this-point, the-sun became a-main-sequence-star.
the-main-sequence-phase, from beginning to end, will last about-10-billion-years for the-sun the-sun compared to around-two-billion-years for all-other-phases of the-sun's pre-remnant life combined.
solar-wind from the-sun
the-sun created the-heliosphere and swept away the-remaining-gas and dust from the-protoplanetary-disc into interstellar-space, ending the-planetary-formation-process.
the-sun the-sun is growing brighter; early in the-sun main-sequence life the-sun brightness was 70% that of what it is today.
the-solar-system will remain roughly as we know the-solar-system today until the-hydrogen in the-core of the-sun has been entirely converted to helium, which will occur roughly-5-billion-years from now.
at this-time, the-core of the-sun the-sun the-sun will contract with hydrogen-fusion occurring along a-shell surrounding the-inert-helium, and the-energy-output will be much greater than at present.
the-outer-layers of the-sun will expand to roughly 260 times the-sun current diameter, and the-sun will become a-red-giant.
because of the-sun vastly-increased-surface-area, the-surface of the-sun the-sun will be considerably cooler (2,600 k at the-sun coolest) than the-sun is on the-main-sequence.
the-expanding-sun is expected to vaporize mercury and render earth uninhabitable.
the-sun is the-solar-system's-star and by far the-solar-system's-most-massive-component.
the-sun is a-g2-type-main-sequence-star.
the-sun are rare, whereas-substantially-dimmer-and-cooler-stars, known as red-dwarfs, make up 85% of the-stars in the-milky-way.
the-sun is a-population i star; the-sun has a-higher-abundance of elements heavier than hydrogen and helium ("metals" in astronomical-parlance) than the older population ii stars.
the-vast-majority of the-solar-system consists of a-near-vacuum known as the-interplanetary-medium.
along with light, the-sun radiates a-continuous-stream of charged-particles (a-plasma) known as the-solar-wind.
venus and mars do not have magnetic-fields, and as a-result the-solar-wind is causing venus and mars atmospheres to gradually bleed away into space.
the-heliosphere and planetary-magnetic-fields (for those-planets that have them) partially shield the-solar-system from high-energy-interstellar-particles called cosmic rays.
the-density of cosmic-rays in the-interstellar-medium and the-strength of the-sun's-magnetic-field-change on very-long-timescales, so the-level of cosmic-ray-penetration in the-solar-system varies, though by how much is unknown.
the first, the zodiacal dust cloud, lies in the-solar-system and causes the-zodiacal-light.
three of the-four-inner-planets (venus, earth and mars) have atmospheres substantial enough to generate weather; all have impact-craters and tectonic-surface-features, such as rift-valleys and volcanoes.
the-term-inner-planet should not be confused with inferior-planet, which designates those-planets that are closer to the-sun than earth is (i.e.-mercury and venus).
mercury is the-closest-planet to the-sun the-sun and on-average,-all-seven-other-planets.
the-smallest-planet in the-solar-system (0.055-m⊕), mercury has no-natural-satellites.
venus (0.7-au from the-sun) is close in size to earth (0.815 m⊕) and, like earth, has a-thick-silicate-mantle around an-iron-core, a-substantial-atmosphere, and evidence of internal-geological-activity.
earth ====
earth (1-au from the-sun) is the largest and densest of the-inner-planets, the only one known to have current-geological-activity, and the-only-place where life is known to exist.
earth (1-au from the-sun)
mars (1.5-au from the-sun) is smaller than earth and venus (0.107 m⊕).
the-asteroid-belt occupies the-orbit between mars and jupiter, between 2.3-and-3.3-au from the-sun.
ceres ==== was classified as a-dwarf-planet in 2006 when the-definition of a-planet was created.
jupiter-trojans are located in either of jupiter's-l4 or l5-points (gravitationally-stable-regions leading and trailing a-planet in its-orbit); the-term trojan is also used for small-bodies in any-other-planetary-or-satellite-lagrange-point.
hilda-asteroids are in a-2:3-resonance with jupiter; that is, hilda-asteroids go around the-sun three times for every two jupiter orbits.
the-outer-region of the-solar-system is home to the-giant-planets and their-large-moons.
due to the-centaurs and many-short-period-comets greater-distance from the-sun, the-solid-objects in the-solar-system contain a-higher-proportion of volatiles, such as water, ammonia, and methane than those of the-solar-system because the-lower-temperatures allow these-compounds to remain solid.
jupiter and saturn are together more-than-400-times-the-mass of earth and consist overwhelmingly of the-gases-hydrogen and helium, hence jupiter and saturn designation as gas-giants.
the-term superior-planet designates planets outside earth's-orbit and thus includes both-the-outer-planets and mars.
although saturn has 60% of jupiter's-volume, it is less than a third as massive, at 95 m⊕. saturn is the-only-planet of the-solar-system that is less dense than water.
titan, the-second-largest-moon in the-solar-system, is larger than mercury and the-only-satellite in the-solar-system with a-substantial-atmosphere.
uniquely among the-outer-planets, it orbits the-sun on the-sun side; the-sun axial tilt is over ninety-degrees to the-ecliptic.
the-sun has a-much-colder-core than the-other-giant-planets and radiates very-little-heat into space.
when a-comet enters the-inner-solar-system, a-comet proximity to the-sun causes a-comet icy surface to sublimate and ionise, creating a-coma: a-long-tail of gas and dust often visible to the-naked-eye.
beyond the-orbit of neptune lies the-area of the-"trans-neptunian-region", with the-doughnut-shaped-kuiper-belt, home of pluto and several-other-dwarf-planets, and an-overlapping-disc of scattered-objects, which is tilted toward the-plane of the-solar-system and reaches much further out than the-kuiper-belt.
the-entire-region appears to consist overwhelmingly of many-thousands of small-worlds—the largest having a-diameter only-a-fifth that of earth and a-mass far smaller than that of the-moon—composed mainly of rock and ice.
pluto has a-relatively-eccentric-orbit inclined 17-degrees to the-ecliptic-plane and ranging from 29.7-au from the-sun at perihelion (within the-orbit of neptune) to 49.5-au at aphelion.
pluto has a-3:2-resonance with neptune, meaning that pluto orbits twice round the-sun for every-three-neptunian-orbits.
the-point at which the-solar-system ends and interstellar-space begins is not precisely defined because the-solar-system outer boundaries are shaped by two-forces, the-solar-wind and the-sun's-gravity.
the-collision occurs at the-termination-shock, which is roughly-80–100-au from the-sun upwind of the-interstellar-medium and roughly-200-au from the-sun downwind.
voyager 2 is reported to have crossed the-heliopause in august 2012.the shape and form of the-outer-edge of the-heliosphere is likely affected by the-fluid-dynamics of interactions with the-interstellar-medium as well as solar-magnetic-fields prevailing to the-south, e.g. voyager 2 is bluntly shaped with the-northern-hemisphere extending 9-au farther than the-southern hemisphere.
beyond the-heliopause, at around-230-au, lies the-bow-shock, a-plasma-"wake" left by the-sun as the-sun travels through the-milky-way.
the-sun is expected that nasa's-voyager-2-spacecraft, as they pass the-heliopause, will transmit valuable-data on radiation-levels and solar-wind to earth.
how well the-heliosphere shields the-solar-system from cosmic-rays is poorly understood.
the-oort-cloud is a-hypothetical-spherical-cloud of up-to-a-trillion-icy-objects that is thought to be the-source for all-long-period-comets and to surround the-solar-system at roughly-50,000-au-(around-1-light-year-(ly)), and possibly to as far as 100,000-au (1.87 ly).
much of the-solar-system is still unknown.
lower-estimates for the-radius of the-oort-cloud, by contrast, do not place the-oort-cloud farther than 50,000-au.
the-solar-system is located in the-milky-way, a-barred-spiral-galaxy with a-diameter of about-100,000-light-years containing more-than-100-billion-stars.
the-sun resides in one of the-milky-way's-outer-spiral-arms, known as the-orion–cygnus-arm or local-spur.
the-sun lies about-26,660-light-years from the-galactic-centre, and the-sun speed around the-center of the-milky-way is about-247-km/s, so that the-sun completes one-revolution every 210 million years.
the-solar-system's-orbit is close to circular, and orbits near the-sun are at roughly-the-same-speed as that of the-spiral-arms.
therefore, the-sun the-sun passes through arms only rarely.
because spiral-arms are home to a-far-larger-concentration of supernovae, gravitational-instabilities, and radiation that could disrupt the-solar-system, this has given earth long-periods of stability for life to evolve.
however, the-changing-position of the-solar-system relative to other-parts of the-milky-way could explain periodic-extinction-events on earth, according to the-shiva-hypothesis or related-theories.
the-solar-system lies well outside the-star-crowded-environs of the-galactic-centre.
the-solar-system is in the-local-interstellar-cloud or local-fluff.
the-solar-system is thought to be near the-neighbouring-g-cloud
but it is not known if the-solar-system is embedded in the-local-interstellar-cloud, or if it is in the-region where the-local-interstellar-cloud and g-cloud are interacting.
the-stars next closest to the-sun
the-sun are the-red-dwarfs barnard's-star (at 5.9-ly), wolf 359 (7.8-ly), and lalande 21185 (8.3 ly).
the-closest-solitary-sun-like-star to the-solar-system is tau-ceti at 11.9-light-years.
the-solar-system has roughly-80% of the-sun's-mass but only-60% of the-solar-system luminosity.
the-closest-known-free-floating-planetary-mass-object to the-sun is wise 0855−0714, an-object with a-mass less-than-10-jupiter-masses roughly 7 light-years away.
compared to many-other-planetary-systems, the-solar-system stands out in lacking planets interior to the-orbit of mercury.
the-solar-system also lacks super-earths (planet-nine could be a-super-earth beyond the-known-solar-system).
uncommonly, the-solar-system has only-small-rocky-planets and large-gas-giants; elsewhere-planets of intermediate-size are typical—both rocky and gas—so there is no-"gap" as seen between the-size of earth and of neptune (with a-radius 3.8 times as large).
this led to the-hypothesis that all-planetary-systems start with many-close-in-planets, and that typically-a-sequence of all-planetary-systems collisions causes consolidation of mass into few-larger-planets, but in case of the-solar-system the-collisions caused all-planetary-systems destruction and ejection.
a-cosmic-history of the-solar-system a-tediously-accurate-map of the-solar-system (web based scroll map scaled to the moon being 1 pixel)
rose is a-given-female-name.
rose is a-late-latin-name derived from rosa, meaning "rose".
rose was originally a-norman-form of a-german-name-hrodheid, composed of the-words-hrod ("fame") and heid ("kind",-"type").
slovak: 4 september italian: 4-september-polish: 4 september, 7-february, 27 january
roos, rosa, rosalie french: rose , rosalie
rose of viterbo (1233–1251), italian-saint-mary-tudor, queen of france (1496–1533), sister of king-henry-viii of england, was known as "mary-rose"-rose-(singer) (born 1978), french-singer-songwriter-rose-alexandrine-barreau (1773–1843), french-soldier
rose (two and a-half-men)
rose (titans-character)
rose (marvel-comics), a-persona used by several-characters in marvel-comics the rose (comics) or richard-fisk, a-character in marvel-comics
legend of dragoon-chairman rose, a character from the-game pokémon-sword and shield-laterose, known as simply rose, a-fictional-character from redwall
rose-cameron, a-recurring-character in netflix-series-outer-banks (tv-series) rose-canton of rose and thorn, a-golden-age-dc-comics-villainess rose da silva, a-character from the-2006-film silent hill rose granger-weasley, daughter of ronald-weasley and hermione-granger in the harry potter books rose hathaway, the-main-character of the-vampire-academy-series
rose (surname)
the last of the-jedi is a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008.
a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008 is set in the-fictional-star-wars-legends (formerly known as the-star-wars-expanded-universe and discarded from the-canon in 2014), the-series is set in the-time-period between the-end of star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and a few years prior to episode-iv – a-new-hope.
a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008 follows the-life of obi-wan-kenobi, following the-events of revenge of the-sith until he finds ex-padawan-ferus-olin.
the-remainder of the-series focuses on a-small-band of surviving-jedi.
a few months after the-events in revenge of the-sith, obi-wan-kenobi finds obi-wan-kenobi settling into obi-wan-kenobi exile on tatooine.
as far as emperor-palpatine is concerned, the-jedi are all but extinct.
now ferus-olin must return to redeem ferus-olin—and save the-future of the-jedi-order.
the-empire now controls the-temple and everything inside...
the-empire won't be able to hold ferus for long—not when the-empire has a-friend on the-inside.
ferus's-quest is going to take ferus to the-planet of naboo, where a secret vital to the-survival of the-jedi and the-entire-galaxy is being kept…and is in danger of being revealed.
since palpatine's-takeover, palpatine believes palpatine power is absolute.
palpatine controls everything, including the-senate.
palpatine is the-leader of the-evil-sith.
and now palpatine wishes to control ferus.
but ferus does not want to help palpatine, until palpatine threatens those-people closest to palpatine heart.
palpatine wishes to use ferus as an-undercover-agent – a-double-agent.
this-book was released in august 2006.
return of the-dark-side (2006) ===
things go wrong when palpatine comes to samaria, ordering ferus, who is a-double-agent, to kill palpatine companions.
secret-weapon (2007) === begins on the-planet-bellassa, where parts of a-secret-weapon is being built by the-galactic-empire, with darth-vader and grand-moff-tarkin overlooking the-process to make sure that the-process remains secret.
ferus joins the-dark-side in the-same-way anakin was seduced by the-dark-side, and palpatine promises to give anakin the-power over life and death.
against the-empire (2007) ===
some go undercover, trying to fight the-empire from the-inside, and others watch and wait.
for ferus-olin, hatred for the-empire is personal.
ferus goes through lesson one which palpatine does not attend.
ferus used the-force to distract zan-arbor and escapes with ferus.
star-wars-author-george-lucas included a-planet called alderaan in early-treatments; in the-star-wars (1973), alderaan is a-city-planet and the-capital-planet of the-galaxy (prefiguring the-planet-coruscant which later featured in the-films).
a-planet described in lucas's-draft-script as being "under siege by the-imperial-legions of alderaan" and which is later destroyed is named as ogana-major.
early-sketches commissioned by lucas from conceptual-illustrator-ralph-mcquarrie show a-design which very closely resembles cloud-city, as featured in the-later-sequel, the empire strikes back.
in lucas's-third-draft, the-imperial-city of alderaan has become the-home-world of the-sith-lords, and darth-vader holds princess-leia captive here.
lucas continued to hone lucas script, aided by screenwriters-willard-huyck and gloria-katz; names of planets and characters were revised and the-narrative was improved, and by the-fourth-draft, scenes on the-imperial-capital-planet had been moved to a-space-station called the death star and the peaceful world destroyed by the-empire had taken the-name alderaan.
the on-screen depictions of alderaan in the-star-wars-films are scant; the-imperial-capital-planet is seen momentarily in star-wars (1977) prior to the-imperial-capital-planet destruction, and in revenge of the-sith (2005) a-short-scene shows a-city amid a-snow-covered,-mountainous-landscape.
the-opening-scene depicts the-capture of a-small-spaceship from alderaan, the-tantive-iv, by the-galactic-empire, and introduces the-character of princess-leia-organa, a-princess of the-royal-house of alderaan who is played by carrie-fisher.
it is later shown that the-planet has been reduced to a-cloud of asteroids as the millennium falcon spaceship attempts to visit the-planet.
the-destruction of alderaan meant that it was not depicted in subsequent-star-wars-films until the-series of prequel-films was produced.
the-planet made the-planet first on-screen appearance since 1977 in episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005), appearing briefly at the-end of the-film.
the-planet is not featured in the-2016-film rogue-one, but the-character bail-organa makes an-appearance, stating that the-character bail-organa will return to alderaan to wait for the-character bail-organa daughter, leia, to bring the-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi.
in an-episode of the-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars entitled "assassin", ahsoka-tano has premonitions of padmé's-death on alderaan.
in star-wars #33 (2017), leia tells luke that sometimes leia can see alderaan among the-stars as, from certain-perspectives in the-galaxy, alderaan light has not ceased to emit.
the-1981-npr/bbc--radio-drama-adaptation of star-wars features scenes set on alderaan, in which princess-leia discusses her-mission to acquire the death star plans from agents of the-rebel-alliance with her-father, bail-organa (prestor-organa).
the-planet appears more substantially in star-wars-reference-guides to fictional-locations.
according to kevin-j.-anderson's-the-illustrated-star-wars-universe (1995) and wallace, kolins and mckinney's-star-wars: the-essential-guide to planets and moons (1998), alderaan is covered by wild-grasslands, plains, forests and mountain-ranges.
the-planet has no-ocean, but has a-semi-frozen-polar-sea, and thousands of lakes and rivers.
the-planet is rich in biodiversity, populated by a-wide-variety of flora and fauna, such as the-nerf and the-thranta.
the-planet is evidenced by a-number of cities, built to harmonize with the-natural-environment such as on canyon-walls, on stilts along the-shoreline or under the-polar-ice.
the-alderaanian-people value arts and education highly, and place high-importance on the-alderaanian-people participation in the galactic (later-imperial) senate and the-promotion of peace through demilitarization.
list of star-wars-planets and moons
galactic-battlegrounds was released on november 11, 2001.
the-player starts the-game with a-command-center, a-scout, and three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) for whichever of the-six-original-factions three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) choose.
the-player searches and gathers resources such as food, carbon, nova-crystals, and ore and then uses the-resources in order to create new-buildings, combat-units, and workers.
carbon is used in place of wood in age of empires 2 for buildings and artillery.
the-player can build separate-units at separate-buildings designed specifically for different-types of units.
the-player can advance through the-four-tech-levels by paying a-certain-amount of resources.
it is the-most-directly-powerful-unit in the-game (not including cheats.)
if victory is set to standard, the-player can win in three-different-ways.
the-player may win by destroying all of the-enemies-buildings and units with all of the-enemies-buildings and units-army.
also, the-player can use a-jedi/sith to bring all of the-holocrons to the-jedi/sith-temple and preserve them for 200-"days".
if a-monument that is only available at tech level 4 stays standing for 300-days, then the-player wins.
the-campaign sees the-player assume the-role of chewbacca's-father, attichitchuk.
in the-campaign, the-player gradually learns the-game's-play-mechanics as attichitchuk marshals a-wookiee-army to force the-trade-federation off alaris-prime.
trade federation - the-campaign has the-player assume the-role of oom-9, a-droid-ground-commander leading the-trade-federation's-actions during the-blockade of naboo in star-wars:
galactic-empire---the-imperial-campaign begins just after the-events of a-new-hope, as darth-vader personally leads the-assault on the-rebels'-massassi ruins base and captures general-jan-dodonna.
a-mission to protect an-at-at-prototype is the-imperial-attack on hoth, where the-player has a-chance to destroy echo-base and prevent han-solo and company's-escape.
the-bonus-missions depict the-empire's-hostile-takeover of bespin and an-alternate-retelling of the-battle of endor where the-empire routs the-ewoks.
the-empire strikes back.
the-jedi-council sends shen-jon to the-planet along with shen-jon new padawan,
the-wreckage of a-decimator found on the-planet reveals the-usage of stolen-republic-technology.
shen-jon-and-reath-head to the-planet and destroy a-trade-federation-mining-camp on krant's-moon, creating a-staging-area for the-invasion of krant.
the-jedi-master kills the-chiss-commander, but the-jedi-master brush with the-dark-side of the-force leaves the-jedi-master with enough-guilt to go on a-self-imposed-exile.
echuu later meets with princess-leia on krant during the-rebel-campaign, where darth-vader kills him.
in the-united-states, galactic-battlegrounds sold 225,000-copies and earned $9.8 million by august 2006, after 225,000-copies release in november 2001.
combined-sales of all-versions and expansions of galactic-battlegrounds reached 480,000-units in the-united-states by august 2006.star
gamerankings gave the-game a-score of 77.33%, while metacritic gave gamerankings 75 out of 100.
gamespot gave the-game an-8.2/10, calling an-8.2/10 "perfect for a-generation of gamers raised on star-wars".
however, brian-gee of game-revolution gave the-game a-"c" and said that a-"c" "doesn't feel very-star-wars".
carla-harker reviewed the-pc-version of the-game for next-generation, rating it four-stars out of five, and stated that "age of empires and star-wars?
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (often-abbreviated-kotor) is a-role-playing-video-game set in the star-wars universe.
developed by bioware and published by lucasarts, a-role-playing-video-game set in the-star-wars-universe was released for the-xbox on july 19, 2003, and for microsoft-windows on november 19, 2003.
the-story of knights of the-old-republic takes place almost 4,000 years before the-formation of the-galactic-empire, where darth-malak, a-dark-lord of the-sith, has unleashed a-sith-armada against the-galactic-republic.
the-player-character, as a-jedi, must venture to different-planets in the-galaxy to defeat malak.
the-game was directed by casey-hudson, designed by james-ohlen, and written by drew-karpyshyn.
announced in 2000, the-game was delayed several times before the-game release in july 2003.
the-game received critical-acclaim upon release, with critics applauding the-game's characters, story, and sound.
a-sequel, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
players choose from three-basic-character-classes (scout, soldier or scoundrel) at the-beginning of the-game and later choose from three-jedi-subclasses (guardian, sentinel or consular).
feats and force powers are generally unlocked upon level-up, while the-player is given skill-points to distribute among feats and force powers skills every level.
while each-round's-duration is a-fixed-short-interval of real-time, the-player can configure the-combat-system to pause at specific-events or the end of each-round, or set the-combat-system to never automatically pause, giving the-illusion of real-time-combat.
for much of the-game, the-player can have up-to-two-companions in the-player party.
they can be manually controlled by the-player, or act autonomously if the-player does not give they any-input.
outside of combat, the-companions will randomly engage the-player or each other in dialogue, sometimes unlocking additional-quests.
the-companions will also participate in conversations the-player has with other-non-player-characters.
following each-statement, the-player can select from a-list of menu-responses.
the-player can participate in swoop racing to earn money, and sometimes interplanetary-travel will be interrupted by enemy-starfighters, which begins a-minigame where the-player controls a-turret to shoot down the-opposing-starcraft.
the-player can also engage in a-card-game known as pazaak, which is similar to the-game of blackjack, to gamble money.
knights of the-old-republic takes place approximately 4,000 years before the-rise of the-galactic-empire, and covers the-era following the-conclusion of the-star-wars:
the-backstory of the-game involves the-mandalorian-warrior-society invading the-galactic-republic in a-pan-galactic-conflict known as the-mandalorian-wars, essentially to test the-mandalorian-warrior-society prowess.
the-jedi were hesitant to get involved, but a-pair of renegade-jedi-knights, revan and malak, led a-group to war anyway, leading the-galactic-republic to victory.
malak, revan's-apprentice, eventually succeeded his-former-master as dark-lord of the-sith after revan was seemingly killed in an-ambush by the-jedi.
malak's-aggression has left the-jedi the-jedi scattered and vulnerable; many-jedi-knights have fallen in battle, and others have sworn allegiance to malak.
the-game opens with the-player's-character—the-player can choose a-face and be male or female (canonically male)—awakening aboard a-republic-ship, the-endar-spire, which is under attack by malak's-forces over the-city-world of taris.
with no-other-options, trask sacrifices trask while the-player continues to make their-way to the-escape-pods.
the-player's-character and their-companions search planets across the-galaxy—dantooine, manaan, tatooine, kashyyyk, and korriban—for more-information about the-star-forge, gaining new-companions along the-way such as the-cathar-jedi-juhani, assassin-droid hk-47, and 'grey'-jedi-jolee-bindo.
bastila sacrifices bastila so the-player can escape, and is subsequently turned to the-dark-side by darth-malak.
on the-light-side-route, the-player kills or redeems bastila, defeats darth-malak, destroys the-star-forge, and is hailed as a-saviour and hero.
on the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills darth-malak, takes control of the-star-forge for the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills malak, takes control of the-star-forge for themselves, and reclaims their-title as dark-lord of the-sith, and reclaims the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills malak, takes control of the-star-forge for themselves, and reclaims their-title as dark-lord of the-sith title as dark-lord of the-sith.
several of these-characters, including canderous-ordo, hk-47, and t3-m4, also appear in the-sequel, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
action takes place on the-planets
a-space-station near yavin is a-playable-location in the-pc, mac-os-x, and mobile-versions of the-game and is available to xbox-players via download from xbox live.
the-game was officially unveiled as star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at e3 2001.
at this-point, the-game had been in development for around-six-months.
preproduction started in 2000, but the-discussions started back in 1999," lucasarts'-mike-gallo said, "the-first-actual-e-mails were in october or november of '99.
the-decision to set the-game four thousand years before star-wars:
the-phantom-menace was one of the-first-details about the-game made known.
bioware chose to set the-game four thousand years before the-films as bioware gave the-films greater-creative-freedom.
there were good-suggestions made and they made the-game better, so we were happy to do they.
[for knights of the-old-republic], dramatically, but even if it's 60 percent smaller, then it's still 100-hours.
the-developers intended to make the-game have more-open-ended-gameplay.
lucasarts and bioware settled on developing knights of the-old-republic for the-pc and xbox.
bioware had previously developed mdk2 for the-dreamcast and playstation 2.
this made it difficult to predict how well the-game would run.
the-game uses the-odyssey-engine, based on the-aurora-engine (previously developed by bioware for use in neverwinter-nights) but completely rewritten for knights of the-old-republic.
the-game was highly detailed for the-game time:
, dust blows across tatooine and puffs of sand-rise as the-player walks across the-seabed.
the-pc-version features an-additional-location the-player can visit and more npcs, items, and weapons; these-additions were later made available on the-pc-version through xbox live.
knights of the-old-republic contains three-hundred-different-characters and fifteen-thousand-lines of speech.
fortunately, with a-game this size, it's easy to have an-actor play a-few-different-characters and scatter those-parts throughout the-game
a-game the-size of knights of the-old-republic would typically take seven-weeks to record;
actors were recorded one at a-time, as the-non-linear-nature of the-game meant it was too complicated and expensive to record more-than-one-actor at a-time.
soule was unable to write a-full-orchestral-score for knights of the-old-republic due to technical-limitations: "at the-time we only had an-8-megabit per second-midi-system.
when announced at e3 2001, knights of the-old-republic was initially scheduled for a-late-2002-release.
in august 2002 knights of the-old-republic was announced on the-game's-forums that a-late-2002-release had been delayed: the-xbox-version was to be released in spring 2003 and the pc version in summer 2003.
a-further-delay was announced in january 2003, with both-versions of the-game expected to be released in fall 2003.
the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic went gold on july 9, 2003, with a-release-date of july 15.
release, making knights of the-old-republic the fastest-selling xbox title at the-time of its-release.
the-pc-version of the-game went gold on november 11, 2003, and was released on november 18.
the-pc-version of the-game was re-released as part of the-star-wars:
the-game was released for the-ipad on may 30, 2013.
the-game was released as drm-free-download on gog.com in october 2014.the-game was also launched on android's-google-play-store on december 22, 2014.in-october 2017, microsoft made the-xbox-one-console backward compatible with the-ipadxbox , as part of a-13-game-curated-catalogue.
both-eurogamer and jason-schreier have stated that a-remake of knights of the-old-republic is in development at aspyr as of april 2021.
after its-release on july 15, 2003, the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic sold out within four-days on shelves, which amounted to 250,000-sales during that-period.
this made the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic the-console's-fastest-ever-seller at the-time of the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic launch.
the-game ultimately sold 270,000-copies in the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the old republic initial two weeks and was ranked by the-npd-group as the-#2-best-selling-console-game of the-npd-group debut month across all-platforms.
it fell to the-8th-position on npd's-sales-chart for august and was absent by september.
in the-united-states alone, the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic sold 1.3-million-copies and earned $44 million by july 2006.
the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic also received a-"silver"-sales-award from the-entertainment-and-leisure-software-publishers-association, indicating sales of at-least-100,000-copies in the-united-states alone.
following the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic-launch in november 2003, the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic became the-third-best-selling-computer-title of the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic debut-week, according to npd.
although dropped out of npd's-weekly-top 10 by third week, claimed sixth-place in computer-game-sales for november overall, and ninth for december.
returned to the-weekly-top 10 during the december 28 – january 3 period but was absent again on the-next-week's-chart.
by august 2006, the-computer-version had sold 470,000-copies and earned $14.7 million in the-united-states alone.
edge ranked edge as the-country's-32nd-best-selling-computer-game released between january 2000 and august 2006.total sales of the-game's-xbox-and-computer-releases surpassed 2-million-copies by february 2005 and 2.5 million by may and reached nearly 3 million by march 2006.
as of 2007, knights of the-old-republic had sold 3.2-million-units.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic the-old-republic received "universal-acclaim" according to-review aggregator-metacritic, and won numerous-awards, including game-developers-choice-awards'-2004-game of the-year, bafta-games-awards'-best-xbox-game of the-year, and interactive-achievement-awards for best-console-rpg and best-computer-rpg.
gamespot named gamespot the best xbox game of july 2003, and best-computer-game of november 2003.knights of the-old-republic has seen success as the-game of the-year from many-sources including ign, computer-gaming-world, pc-gamer, gmr, the-game-developers-choice-awards, xbox-magazine, and g4.
in total, the-game has won over-40-game of the-year-awards from various-publications.
in 2007, ign listed it at #27 on it list of the-top-100-games of all-time.
in 2010, ign placed the-game at #3 on its-best-games of the-decade (2000–2009), beaten by shadow of the-colossus and half-life 2.at
the-game is also part of the-xbox-platinum-series/classics for sales in excess of 1-million-units.
the-los-angeles-times listed knights of the-old-republic as one of the-most-influential-works of the-star-wars-expanded-universe.
in november 2012, time named it one of the-100-greatest-video-games of all-time.
in early 2017, plot-elements from the-game were referenced in the-animated-tv-series star-wars-rebels such as the-mandalorian-wars and the-ancient-sith-planet-malachor.
star-wars but this was cut though a-deleted-scene of this does exist.
in 2019, kathleen-kennedy stated that lucasfilm was looking into developing movies or television-series in the-knights of the-old-republic-era, but that no-plans had yet been made.
list of star-wars-video-games
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at starwars.com star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at bioware star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at imdb star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at mobygames star-wars: knights of the-old-republic on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki
planets in science fiction are fictional-planets that appear in various-media of the-science-fiction-genre as story-settings or depicted-locations.
before galileo turned his-telescope to the-heavens, the-planets of the-solar-system were not widely recognized as worlds, or places where a-person could potentially set foot; the-planets of the-solar-system were visible to observers merely as bright-points of light, distinguishable from stars only by the-planets of the-solar-system motion.
c. 150), the-alexandrian-astronomer whose-works were the-basis of all-european-astronomy throughout the-middle-ages and renaissance, planets in science fiction were lights set into a-series of transparent-spheres turning around the-earth, which was the-center of the-one-and-only-universe.
planets as places ==
ludovico-ariosto, in ludovico-ariosto epic-orlando-furioso (1513), jestingly sent ludovico-ariosto hero astolfo to a-moon where everything lost on earth eventually turns up, guarded by saint-peter; but it was not until galileo discovered (1609–1610) that a-moon where everything lost on earth had surface-features, and that the-planets could, at least, be resolved into disks, that the-concept that the-planets were real-physical-bodies came to be taken seriously.
in 1543, nicolaus-copernicus had already posited that the-planets orbited the-sun as the-earth does; combined, these-two-concepts led to the-thought that the-planets might be "worlds" similar to the-earth.
in 1877, asaph-hall reported two-moons of mars and giovanni-schiaparelli found the-surface of mars to be adorned with continents, seas, and channels, and a-very-suitable-habitat for life.
from the-beginning of the-1880s, fictions – some more, some less scientific – involving travels to and from mars began to be produced in great-quantities, even though the-observations of percival-lowell required reassessment of mars as a-more-marginal-desert-planet.
mars remained a-favored-destination for fictional-travellers down to the-early-1960s (see mars in fiction).
since probes revealed the-absence of any-indications of intelligent-life on mars, mars mars has changed to a-possible-future-home for the-human-race, e.g. through terraforming.
venus was never quite so popular as mars, probably because mars obdurately refused to display any surface features (mars is covered with sulfuric-acid-clouds only dimly translucent to visible-light), making any-statement about mars nature disturbingly speculative.
venus thus became, until the-early-1960s, a place for science-fiction-writers to place all-manner of unusual-life-forms, from quasi-dinosaurs to intelligent-carnivorous-plants, and where hostile-interactions with venusian natives were reminiscent of european-colonial-projects in africa and asia (see venus in fiction).
various-planets of the-solar-system were used as settings for science-fiction-stories in the-first-half of the-20th-century; but dissatisfaction with the-limits imposed by science led many-writers early on to forsake the-solar-system for fictional-planets around distant-stars.
as increasing knowledge of the-solar-system made the-prospects of life in the-vicinity of earth marginal at best, the-extrasolar-planet has become almost-the-only-venue for contemporary-science-fiction.
in many-works of science-fiction, planets are only described casually, as points of origin and departure, or as interchangeable-backdrops for space-battles.
in other-works, the-planet is the-center-stage, the-primary-scene of events, and particular-attention is paid to its-environment and any-culture that may exist there.
planets may be treated in different-ways depending both on the-interests of the-author and the-genre
in some-stories, a-planet is mainly considered as an-object in space: the-interest of the-fiction depends upon the-fiction astronomical characteristics, such as the-fiction mass, the-fiction geological composition, the-fiction atmosphere, how-many-moons the-fiction has and
in other-stories, a-planet is considered as a-world or setting.
while some-authors choose to treat a-planet in depth, considering a-planet to have a-wide-diversity of geography, climate, politics and culture, others prefer to characterize others planets by some-single-global-characteristic.
such-stereotypes include: the-planet covered by a-single-city; the-planet whose-surface is entirely-desert; the-planet covered by ocean, with no-landmasses; the-planet on which it is perpetually winter; the-planet that is self-aware; and the-planet which has been artificially constructed.
for planets from specific-fictional-milieux, use the-following-lists and categories: ===
planets of the-childe-cycle-dune (herbert) –
planets of the-hyperion-cantos-known-space (niven) –-known-space
lensman-series (smith) – lensman-night's-dawn (hamilton) – planets and habitats of the-night's-dawn-trilogy noon-universe (strugatsky) –
list of uplift-universe-planets "vorkosiverse" (mcmaster-bujold) --planets in the-vorkosigan-saga's-common-fictional-universe
worldwar/colonization-series (turtledove) – planets controlled by the-race ===
dc-comics-planets, list of locations of the-dc-universe#planetary-systems-marvel-comics – features of the marvel universe#planets ===
andromeda – list of andromeda star systems
who planets
fireball-xl5 – fireball-xl5 planets lexx – lexx-planets, fire and water (lexx)
star-wars – category:
star-wars-planets, list of star-wars-planets and moons stargate – list of stargate planets
shadow-raiders – list of shadow-raiders planets
mustafar-scenes take place in star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
excalbia is a-planet with a-mostly-molten-lava-surface, featured in star-trek:
silicon-based-beings native to the-planet (excalbians) create a-habitable-earthlike-area on the-surface.
in bioware's-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, manaan is an-ocean-world inhabited by the-amphibian-selkath and source of the-healing-substance kolto.
stanisław-lem's-solaris is a-planet entirely covered by a-sentient-ocean.
jack-vance's-the-blue-world takes place on a-planet entirely covered by ocean.
the-planet was settled by colonists from the-earth in the-28th-century, who created a-utopian-culture.
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the earththe earth.
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the dying earth
the-ocean is much deeper than any on earth, making the-ocean only slightly more dense than earth despite a-greater-radius.
hal-clement's-last-novel noise depicts a-planet whose-ocean is megametres deep.
subnautica is a-survival-game that takes place on an-ocean-planet named 4546b. much of the-planet
is a-deep-watered-ecological-deadzone supporting only-planktonic-lifeforms; the-setting of the-game takes place on the-crater-rim of a-dormant,-underwater-volcano that is able to support one of the-only-concentrations of diverse-life on the-planet.
mars as a-desert-planet ====
before, and certainly after, the-results sent back by the-viking-landers, some-science-fiction set on mars portrayed some-science-fiction set on mars as a-desert-planet.
the-anime-series-cowboy-bebop repeatedly portrayed mars as a-prominent-colonized-world in the-21st-century.
it serves as a-central-hub for the-solar-system after earth was left mostly uninhabitable following the-warp-gateway-disaster.
leigh-brackett's-martian-stories, in which mars is largely desert with sporadic-oases of civilization.
ray-bradbury's-the-martian-chronicles-collection of short-stories depict mars as a-mostly-hospitable-desert home to first an-indigenous-martian-civilization, who are displaced by an-encroaching-homo-sapiens-population.
leigh-brackett's-martian-stories, in which mars is largely desert with sporadic-oases of civilization use a "cowboys vs indians" theme which benefits from the-red-desert-backdrop of mars.
kim-stanley-robinson's-mars-trilogy, where mars is gradually terraformed from a-frozen-desert-planet to a-more-hospitable-earthlike-environment.
martian-time-slip, by philip-k.-dick, in which mars has been colonized by earth's-un; scarce-water is closely apportioned, and the-president of the-water-workers-union is one of the-more-powerful-figures.
the-2000-film-mission to mars is about a-difficult-rescue-attempt following a-disaster during the-first-manned-nasa-voyage to this-red-wasteland that is mars; humanoid-martians are discovered to have once been native-inhabitants, and the-cydonia-mensae-'face-formation' is used as a-major-plot-device.
the-2000-film-red-planet is about a-terraforming-expedition from earth to mars gone awry due to voracious-indigenous-martian-insects; earth's australian and jordanian deserts were used as filming locations.
in the-star-trek-universe, mars is the-first-planet to be terraformed by the-people of earth, and by the-24th-century its-orbital-utopia-planitia-shipyards are a-key-starfleet-facility.
the-sands of mars by arthur-c.-clarke
total-recall, in which mars is inhabited by mutants and labourers, and air is supplied at a-tax.
ian-mcdonald's-novel-desolation-road depicts mars as a-desert-planet before being colonized by humans.
contains planets not found in the-preceding-lists.
a-planet in the-frank-herbert-novel the-godmakers, where all-the-religions of the-universe co-exist with no-conflict, under the-ecumenical-truce.
athena — a-planet in tom-godwin's-space-prison (aka-the-survivors) and the-space-barbarians, claimed by the-gern-empire and colonized by terran-slave-labor before being liberated by the-ragnarokans.
azeroth --the-main-setting for the-video-games world of warcraft, a-planet inhabited by numerous-sapient-creatures, such as humans, orcs, or dragons.
ballybran — a-planet in anne-mccaffrey's-crystal-singer-series.
belzagor — a-planet colonized by earth, whose-natives are the-elephant-like-nildoror, in downward to the earth by robert-silverberg.
bronson-alpha and bronson-beta — planets that enter the-solar-system in philip-gordon-wylie and edwin-balmer's-novel when worlds collide.
castiana – a-planet from stargate-sg-1, known by the-ancients as taoth-vaclarush, was an-ancient-city that could hold the-key to finding the-sangreal.
chiron — a-planet orbiting the-star-alpha-centauri in the-computer-game sid-meier's-alpha-centauri.
a-planet notable for cyteen — cloning-research, from c.-j.-cherryh's-alliance-union-universe-novels.
death-wind – a-planet featured in the-first-f-zero-game, named for its-endless-windstorms.
the-planet in c.-j.-cherryh's-novel-downbelow-station and home of the-hisa.
emm luther – a-planet with a-single-continent, ruled by a-theocratic-government, in the-novel-night walk by bob-shaw.
a-planet in peter-f.-hamilton's-commonwealth-saga which has been sterilized by a-solar-flare and is characterized by a-triangle of stratospheric-mountains.
a-planet-22-light-years from earth in the-television-series earth 2.
a-planet of the-star-tau-ceti in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star-tau-ceti in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet circling proxima-centauri, home of the-hostile-aliens called furons in the-video-game destroy all-humans!.
a-planet sent out of its-orbit by spindizzys in james-blish's-novels earthman come home (1955) and
helghan — a-planet of alpha-centauri with a-very-hostile-environment in the-killzone-video-game-series.
a-planet orbiting a-binary-star in the-trilogy of the-same-name by brian-aldiss.
a-lush-planet in the-homeworld-videogame, which the-player must seek.
a-planet in the-yonmaran-system.
one of a-planet in the-yonmaran-system-moons, vieneo is the-setting of rise:
the-vieneo-province-ireta — a-planet in anne-mccaffrey's-planet-pirates-series, inhabited by both-people and dinosaurs, and so also called dinosaur planet – the-name of the-novel in which it first appears.
ishtar — a-planet in orbit around-three-suns (a-yellow-dwarf, red-dwarf, and a-red-giant) whose-northern-hemisphere undergoes catastrophic-heating every thousand years as it draws near to one of them.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by an-intelligent-species resembling a-cross between an-elephant and a-dachshund in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
iszm — a-planet in jack-vance's-novel the-houses of iszm, a-world on which bioengineering of plants is the-dominant-technology-form (as opposed to mechanical-engineering on earth).
a-desert-planet in the-game homeworld, destroyed by an-enemy-race after space-travel is developed.
kobol — a-planet in the-battlestar-galactica-universe.
a-planet of the-star tau-ceti inhabited by warlike-humanoids, the-main-setting of l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star epsilon-eridani inhabited by intelligent-dinosauroids and earth-colonists in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
—-a-planet in the-story nightfall by isaac-asimov, in a-globular-cluster, and in a-system with six-suns.
the-orbit of the-planet is such that all-sides of the-planet are almost always illuminated by at-least-one-sun; only once in every-2,049-years is lagash oriented in such-a-way that one of the-suns is eclipsed by a-dark-companion-body.
in the-novel developed from the-short-story, the-planet was called kalgash.
a-planet in greg-bear's-novel-legacy, whose-continent-sized-superorganisms mimic lamarckian-evolution.
a-planet peopled by an-alien-species with a-well-developed-natural-ethics but no-form of religion, in james-blish's-novel-a-case of conscience.
or-acheron — the-planet on which the-derelict-ship and lv-426 deadly-cargo are found in the-movies alien and aliens.
melancholia — a-rogue-planet that collides with earth in the 2011 film melancholia.
minerva —-earthlike-planet occupying the-orbit of mars in the-alternate-universe of harry-turtledove's-a-world of difference.
mist-flow is featured in the-f-zero-gp-legend-and-f-zero-climax-games as a-planet completely covered in fog, obstructing the-field-view of the-racers.
planets named in the-television-series-war of the-worlds.
mor-tax, a-planet orbiting a-dying-star in the-pleiades, is a-paradise-planet, the-homeworld of the-aliens invading earth.
nacre — a-planet populated primarily by fungi, including an-intelligent-variety; from piers-anthony's-novels omnivore, orn and ox.
in the-computer-game-outpost 2, new-terra — is the-world chosen by humanity as new-terra — last-hope for survival, colonized by the-last-survivors of earth in starship-conestoga.
the-inhabitants attempt to conquer earth during the-30th-century.
nirn is the-name of the-planet where the-elder-scrolls-games are set in.
a-planet of the-star-lalande 21185 inhabited by humanoids organized into female-dominated-hive-societies in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by a-spacefacing-dinosauroid-species in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
pax — a-planet with sentient-plants in sue-burke's-semiosis.
peaceland –-home-planet of the-sakimori-family who fled to earth after it was destroyed, in the-1973-japanese-tv-series ryusei-ningen-zoon (meteor-man-zone).
a-planet that serves for much of the-setting of the-1982-french-animated-science-fiction-movie les-maîtres-du-temps (time-masters), by rené-laloux.
a-planet pelted by a-deadly-spore (called thread), capable of eating anything but rock and metal, for periods of fifty-years every-two-to-four-centuries in anne-mccaffrey's-dragonriders of pern-novels.
a-planet the-character new-rat-city offers to take the-player in the-2012-twine-game-rat-chaos.
a-planet of indeterminate-location that is the-sole-known-source of illudium-phosdex, the-"shaving-cream-atom", in the-1952-merrie-melodies-sci-fi-parody-duck-dodgers in the-24½th-century.
the-planet is largely barren on the-surface, with extensive-tunnels and advanced-technology, which has little-water, a-fact which causes its-people to attempt to invade earth using first-king-ghidorah, and later-godzilla and rodan as mind-controlled-weapons.
the-members of the-species that had made the-planet's-populations way to earth appears to have been simultaneously destroyed when the-leader of the-civilization activated some-form of self-destruct-mechanism.
it is suggested at the-film's-end that the-planet still exists and that there is still a-remaining-population present there.
the-planet's-inhabitants leave the-planet behind when godzilla, mothra, and the-forces of earth successfully defeat the-forces of earth armies and monsters.
a-planet shaped like a-five-pointed-star that serves as the-main-setting of the-kirby-series.
a-planet orbiting three-stars in the-cartoon-visionaries: knights of the-magical-light.
ragnarok — a-planet in tom-godwin's-space-prison (aka-the-survivors) and the-space-barbarians.
regis-iii — a-planet populated by evolving-machines in stanisław-lem's-novel the-invincible.
a-planet from the-saturday-night-live-skit "coneheads.
a-planet with extreme-social-division between the-haves and have-nots, in bruce-sterling's-the-artificial-kid.
rosetta – home-planet of rosemary and takeshi-shishidou, who fled to earth when it was invaded by the-black-star-army; in the-1979-japanese-tv-series honou no-choujin-megaloman (megaloman: superman of flame).
a-planet ruled by a-cannibal-elite in norman-spinrad's-the-men in the-jungle.
a-planet in the-video-game
seiren – a-planet where 90-percent of the-population is women.
a-planet covered by a-single-sentient-organism in the-book of that-name by stanisław-lem.
stroggos – the-planet on which the-games quake-ii and quake-iv take place.
its-tracks includes the-explosive-and-championship-circuits, the latter of which is unique as its is the-only-track in the-game where the-player can save a-ghost as well as a-replay.
tanis — destination of the-sleeper-ship elysium in the-film pandorum.
the-planet on which the computer game mercenary and targ —
the-game's-characters mistake the-planet for the-marker-home-world.
tencton — the-home-planet of extraterrestrials in the-series and movie alien-nation.
terminus is a-planet at the-edge of the-galaxy in isaac-asimov's-foundation-series, home of the-foundation (later-capital of the-foundation federation).
thalassa — a-watery-planet colonized by earth, and revisited by a-ship travelling to the-planet sagan 2 in arthur-c.-clarke's-novel
the-planet is home to a-form of ape-like-creatures which can take on a-disguise to resemble humans that typically fades after death.
the-planet is slowly being sucked into a-black-hole, which forced their-species to attempt to conquer earth by the-use of a-mechanical-doppelganger of godzilla; mechagodzilla.
their-return in 1978's-terror of mechagodzilla having reconstructed the-machine and enlisting the-aid of a-scientist whose-daughter their saved in order to gain the-services of a-massive-kaiju named titanosaurus, in an-attempt to defeat godzilla and finally begin their-invasion of earth as their-own-world is now in critical-danger.
an-alternate-version of the-species appears in the dark horse comics run of godzilla, with similar-intentions for the-conquest of earth and for similar-reasons.
a-planet of the-star epsilon-eridani inhabited by an-intelligent-native-avian-species and earth-colonists in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by a-species of anarchic,-bisexual-"teddy-bears" in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet orbiting arcturus in david-lindsay's-novel, a-voyage to arcturus.
a-planet populated by the-phlegmatic-tralfamadorians in the-works of kurt-vonnegut.
tran – the-main-setting of jerry-pournelle's-janissaries-series.
tranai – the-utopian-planet from robert-sheckley's-novella a-ticket to tranai, where very unorthodox methods, such as legalizing street-robbery and granting each-citizen a-right to murder a-planet populated by the-phlegmatic-tralfamadorians in the-works of kurt-vonnegut's-president, are practiced to maintain a-free-society.
trantor is a-planet in isaac-asimov's-foundation-series-and-empire-series of science-fiction-novels.
tristane – a-planet in nina-allan's-novel, the-rift-tschai — the-sole-planet of carina 4269,
a-planet lit by two-fixed-suns, both fixed relative to it, in the-little-big-adventure-computer-games.
vinea — setting of many of the-yoko-tsuno-graphic-novels vishnu — a-planet of the-star tau-ceti inhabited by two-primitive-intelligent-species, the-ape-like-romeli and the-centaur-like-dzlieri, in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
your-turn — a-planet inhabited by vacuum-cleaner-like-aliens from 3-2-1-penguins!.
zavron –-home-planet of the zavronian aliens in the-abc-tv-sitcom ' the-neighbors'-zebes – a-planet from the-metroid-series that was once home to the-chozo-bird-people but now home to the-space-pirates.
zeelich – a-planet covered by a-thick-layer of gas-clouds above a-sea of lava in the-computer-game little-big-adventure 2.
zeist – a-planet that is the-origin of the-immortals in the-movie highlander-ii:
these-planets are identical or nearly identical to earth physically, but have a-history that differs to some-degree from that of earthearth.
planets of the-solar-system ===
real-planets of the-solar-system have that have been utilized or characterized in a-variety of fictional-ways (e.g.-edgar-rice-burroughs'-barsoom, a-fictional-version of mars).
fictional-planets of the-solar-system : planets said to be located within the-solar-system that, in reality, may not exist, do not exist, or have never existed.
pendor — elf-sternberg-planet-x — an-artificial-planet in the-video-game-escape from the-planet of the-robot-monsters (1989)
a-planet with seven-layers of floating-continents.
druidia — home of the-druids, ruled by king-roland and princess-vespa in the-film spaceballs.
a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt.
all-the-inhabitants of a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt are sapient-plant-pots who are all called gordon, with the-exception of one named john.
a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt is referenced frequently but is never actually seen.
a-version of earth in which everything is backwards, in the-sci-fi-television-comedy-red-dwarf.
a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs.
a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs is mentioned as being close to druidia, but a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs is not actually shown on-screen.
marklar — a-planet that appeared in four-episodes of the-animated-television-series south-park, most prominently in starvin'-marvin in space, where all-nouns are replaced by the-word 'marklar'.
a-planet populated by millions of clones of arnold-rimmer who had spent six-hundred-years alone on this-planet, creating clones of arnold-rimmer in a-failed-attempt to create a-girlfriend.
a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt.
a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt is merely an-asteroid with a-lecture-hall at a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt north pole, and the-inhabitants all resemble the-easter-island-statues.
in the-film spaceballs, the-spaceship-eagle-5-crash-lands on the-desert-moon of vega – after running out of fuel.
finn (designation fn-2187) is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-force awakens as a-first-order-stormtrooper who, shocked by the-order's-cruelty in the-force awakens first-combat-mission, flees and joins forces with rey and later-the-resistance.
he is portrayed by english-actor-john-boyega, who reprised the-role in star-wars: the-last-jedi and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
boyega's-performance and the-character have received praise.
for the-roles of finn and other-new-star-wars-characters for the force awakens, director-j.-j.-abrams intentionally looked for unknown-actors, as director-j.-j.-abrams wanted audiences "to meet these-characters [in the-film] and not feel like the-film
boyega, who had impressed abrams in abrams debut role in british-sci-fi-film-attack the-block (2011), was invited to audition for the-role of finn, a-process which lasted seven months before abrams was finally cast.
and we'd been sort of putting john-boyega on the-top of we list right from the-beginning.
stated that it was intentional that finn was given no-last-name in promotional-materials for the force awakens, suggesting that finn full name and background would be revealed in future-films.
however, the-film itself revealed that "finn" is an-adopted-name, derived from his-stormtrooper-number.
in 2021 whilst promoting the-film cherry, marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland revealed marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland had also auditioned for the-role of finn before boyega was cast.
the-force awakens ===
finn, originally designated "fn-2187", is an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver).
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was taken from an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) family at a-young-age and sold to the-first-order to become a-part of his-family ever-expanding-army.
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was trained for most an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) life to be an-effective,-loyal,-and-merciless-soldier.
in spite of finn-training, finn becomes disillusioned with the-first-order during finn first combat mission on the-planet jakku.
finn is traumatized when a-fellow-stormtrooper dies in front of finn, and is later horrified when ren, having failed to secure the-map that will lead to the-missing-luke-skywalker (mark-hamill), orders finn squadron to massacre a-village of jakku-civilians.
finn, however, lowers finn weapon, aghast, in a-silent-but-firm-refusal.
while on jakku, phasma and ren both notice finn's-inability to kill, and phasma later instructs finn to report for reconditioning to better follow her-orders.
instead of heeding her-word, finn resolves to flee the-first-order, and convinces the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) to aid the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) in the-captured-resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) escape.
when finn comes to, finn searches for poe in the-wreckage, but is only able to find the-pilot's-jacket before the-shattered-hull of their-ship is swallowed by an-enormous-sinkhole.
finn assumes that poe is dead.
alone, finn decides to search for civilization, and dons poe's-jacket in place of finn own stormtrooper armor.
poe's-astromech-droid bb-8, now in the-care of the-junk-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley), recognizes the-jacket that finn is wearing belongs to poe.
rey assumes finn to be a-member of the-resistance after mentioning that bb-8 has a-partially-completed-map leading to luke.
finn goes along with luke-mistaken-assumption, hoping that luke will help finn get bb-8 to the-resistance.
the three of them escape the-first-order with help from han-solo (harrison-ford) and chewbacca (peter-mayhew).
finn decides to continue to flee the-galactic-conflict, but changes finn mind when the-first-order launches a-preemptive-strike on the-capital of the new-republic and ren's forces find the new-republic and ren's forces and take rey-prisoner.
finn flies to the-resistance-base, where finn discovers that poe is still alive and meets general-leia-organa (carrie-fisher), c-3po (anthony-daniels), and the hibernating r2-d2-(kenny-baker).
finn reveals some-details about the-first-order's-superweapon, starkiller-base, and claims to be able to disable some-details about the-first-order's-superweapon, starkiller-base shields.
when he arrives on the-planet with han and chewbacca, however, finn reveals that finn only worked in the-base's-sanitation-section.
nevertheless, the-team takes phasma-hostage and finn forces phasma at gunpoint to disable the-shields.
this allows the-resistance to attack, led by poe.
the-resistance meet up with rey, who has freed phasma from captivity.
later, finn watches in horror with the-others as ren kills han.
ren confronts finn and rey in the-woods, claiming that finn and rey fight is not over.
finn picks up luke’s-old-lightsaber after rey is knocked out by ren and tries to fight ren, but ren easily overpowers ren and knocks ren unconscious.
rey stops ren from killing finn, and rey and chewbacca escape starkiller-base in the-millennium-falcon and bring the comatose finn to the-resistance-base for medical-care.
finn is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
finn is also a-point of view-character in the-2015-novelization of the force awakens by alan-dean-foster.
finn is a-playable-character in disney-infinity 3.0, voiced by boyega.
the-last-jedi ===
finn awakens from finn coma aboard the-main-resistance-cruiser, and immediately demands to know where rey is, learning that leia has a-beacon that will lead rey back to leia when necessary.
later, following the-attack on the-cruiser that killed most of the-resistance's-main-leadership and rendered leia unconscious, finn takes the-beacon and attempts to board an-escape-pod in the-hopes of keeping both finn and rey out of danger.
before finn can board the-pod, finn is found by rose-tico (kelly-marie-tran), a-maintenance-worker whose sister paige, a-bomber for the-resistance, has recently died in an-attack on the-first-order.
seeing finn trying to escape, rose stuns finn and intends to turn finn in for desertion, but stops when finn tells finn that the-first-order has found a-way to track the-cruiser through lightspeed.
finn tells finn that finn might be able to disable the-tracker, and finn says that, having worked aboard a-star-destroyer, finn would be able to find where the-tracker is.
rose and finn run rose and finn plan by poe, who contacts kanata for help, but finn claims that finn is too busy and instructs rose and finn to find a-"master-code-breaker" in a-casino in canto-bight, a-resort-city on planet-cantonica.
(laura-dern) wishes, finn and rose, along with bb-8, steal a-ship and go to canto-bight.
finn is initially entranced by the-lavish-lifestyle of the-casino, but becomes disillusioned when rose tells finn that most of the-people there have become wealthy by dealing arms to the-first-order.
while they find the-master-code-breaker, they are unable to recruit finn as they are arrested and jailed for a-parking-violation.
in they cell they meet dj (benicio-del-toro), a-thief and codebreaker who offers to help they; they refuse, but finn nonetheless breaks they out of their-cell.
finn and rose-escape from the-prison, where they set free a-horde of horse-like-racing-creatures called fathiers, escaping atop one of they.
eventually, finn, rose, and dj arrive aboard the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy and disguise themselves as first-order-officers; finn finds the-location of the-tracker and dj breaks themselves in, but before rose is able to disable the-tracker themselves are caught by phasma.
upon being captured, dj, having overheard the-resistance's-plan of escaping to crait via transports, secretly tells the-first-order of the-plans in exchange for money and his-freedom, and finn and rose are to be executed.
finn has a-one-on-one-fight with phasma, ending with finn proudly declaring finn "rebel scum" before phasma falls to her-demise.
bb-8, aboard a-first-order-at-st, rescues finn and rose from stormtroopers and the three of them very narrowly escape to crait aboard a-damaged-shuttle.
as the-first-order prepares an-attack on the-formerly-abandoned-rebel-base on crait, finn recognizes the-weaponry that they plan to use to destroy the-blast-doors and leads a-small-strike on the-first-order with the-intention of disabling the-cannon.
the-attack goes poorly, and poe orders all-fighters to retreat, but finn is determined to destroy the-cannon and flies directly into the-blast, planning to sacrifice finn to defeat the-first-order.
at the-last-second, rose stops finn by ramming her-speeder into finn, pushing finn out of the-blast.
finn asks her why her stopped finn, and her tells finn that wars are won "not by fighting what we hate, but saving what we love;" her then kisses finn before falling unconscious.
finn brings her-body back to the-rebel-base and summons a-medic for her.
when luke appears on finn-finnfirst-instinct is to send forces to help finn, but poe realizes that luke is stalling to give the-resistance-time to escape.
finn and poe lead the-resistance off the-planet.
finn finally reunites with rey, and embraces finn before boarding the-millennium-falcon.
finn is last seen putting a-blanket over the-still-unconscious-rose.
finn is a-playable-hero in star-wars-battlefront-ii, voiced by boyega.
finn was added through the-dlc of the-last-jedi.
the-rise of skywalker
finn, along with poe, intercepts a-message from a-first-order-mole that emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has come back to life and is planning an-attack on the-resistance and the-new-republic in the-form of the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers designed by the-sith-eternal.
finn then leaves along with rey, poe, c-3po, and chewbacca to the-desert-planet of pasaana, where with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams)
throughout the-whole-journey, finn clearly has something finn wants to tell rey, but is unable to find the-time to tell finn.
the-whole-journey takes rey, poe, c-3po, and chewbacca to kijimi, where the-location of the-wayfinder is extracted from c-3po's memory files, and later to the-resurgent-class-star-destroyer-steadfast, where finn and poe go to rescue chewbacca, who was taken by the-first-order.
in the-process, finn and poe are captured by stormtroopers and set to be executed, but finn and poe are rescued by general-hux (domnhall-gleeson), who reveals that he is the-mole.
going free, finn and poe rescue rey aboard the-millennium-falcon and head to the-endor-system, where the-wayfinder is located among the-wreckage of the-second-death-star.
on kef-bir, finn and poe rescue-rey encounter a-group allied with the-resistance, led by a-woman named jannah (naomi ackie).
finn gets to know jannah, who reveals that finn and the-entire-settlement on kef-bir are former-stormtroopers who mutinied after a-battle.
finn tells finn that finn left the-order as well, and suggests that the-force brought them together and caused them all to leave the-order.
finn and jannah follow rey aboard the-wreckage to try and stop her from confronting ren, but her does so and nearly kills ren before healing ren and leaving aboard ren's ship.
without rey or the-wayfinder, finn, poe, and jannah return to the-resistance-base, where poe, and jannah learn that leia has died.
poe is named acting general, and poe appoints finn as co-general.
finn learns of exegol's-whereabouts based on rey's-transmissions, and finn and poe lead a-strike against the-sith-eternal-forces, with finn and jannah specifically leading a-ground-attack on the-surface of the-steadfast to take out he and poe navigation.
as the-attack nears the-attack end, finn and jannah are left on the-surface of the-damaged-resurgent-star-destroyer, but are ultimately rescued by lando and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon and the-rest of the-resistance-fleet; finn attributes finn faith in finn being rescued to a-belief in the-force.
following the-successful-attack, finn celebrates among the-rebels on the-resistance-base, reuniting with rey and poe.
finn, having revealed what finn was going to tell rey to be of finn own realization of being force sensitive, is now training under rey as rey jedi padawan.
rey accidentally hurts finn's-feelings during a-training-session, making finn use a-wooden-toy-lightsaber instead of rey own.
rey seeks out a-path leading rey to the-world between worlds, allowing rey to travel through time.
meanwhile, finn plans for life-day-celebrations with poe, jannah, rose and lando, as they await the-arrival of chewbacca's-family.
during her-travels, rey learns from yoda's-ghost that patience and understanding is an-important-part of teaching a-padawan; finn is shown to have prevented the-life-day-tree from falling by using finn wooden lightsaber.
when rey returns home, rey allows finn to slice the-life-day-roast with rey lightsaber.
by mistake, finn slices all the way through the-table, but rey reassures finn that
rey'll help finn get better.
i feel like it's the-same-kind of journey that finn has when finn leaves the-first-order.
finn leaves a-curriculum, finn leaves a-system and embarks on finn own journey.
finn also noted that initially "most of finn decisions are based on adrenaline.
" boyega further noted that "[n]ot only is the-character in over his-head and someone who is just dropped into an-extraordinary-circumstance, the-scenes and the-script prove that
finn was originally going to be accompanied to canto-bight by poe in the-last-jedi, but writer/director-rian-johnson found the-storyline flat when writer/director-rian-johnson realized their-dialogue was interchangeable.
this led to the-creation of the-character rose-tico, who would challenge and contrast with finn.
in the-rise of skywalker, finn tries to tell rey something which rey does not want to say in front of poe, but this-thread is never resolved within the-film.
the-novelization of the-film reveals that finn is force-sensitive, implying this to be what him intended to tell rey.
abrams later confirmed that finn was indeed force-sensitive shortly after the-film's-premiere.
the-novelization of the-film also states that rey believes this as well, speculating on the-kind of jedi-jedi could become.
the-character and boyega's-portrayal were praised; reviewer-jamie-graham wrote, "of the-new-triangle of characters, boyega brings intensity and surprisingly-honed-comic-timing."
reviewers also praised finn's-relationships with the-other-characters: the dynamic between rey and finn is something new for star-wars, with her-bright-eyed-heroism complementing boyega's-roguish-wit...
peter-travers of rolling-stone described the-character as "bracingly comic and cunning".
robbie-collin writes that boyega has a-"(very-funny)-half-brave,-half-anxious,-would-be-heroic-schtick" and notes that despite being "brave, charming, and funny", finn "only wants to be thought of as the-daring-freedom-fighter
the-character was also subject to racist-reactions by some-fans online, to which boyega responded, "i'm not going to lose sleep over people."
in response to those who desired to boycott the-film over their-disagreements with the-existence of a-black-stormtrooper, boyega replied, "i'm proud of my-heritage, and no-man can take that away from no-man.
finn in the starwars.com databank finn on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki finn on imdb-lego-star-wars:
the-phantom-menace (1999), attack of the-clones (2002) and revenge of the-sith (2005), with a-bonus-level from a-new-hope (1977).
these-initial-versions were published in april 2005.
a-mac-version, developed by aspyr, was released in august 2005.
a-nintendo-gamecube-version of the-game was released on 25-october 2005.
by walking up to another-friendly-character, the-player can switch control over to another-friendly-character; this-interaction is necessary in order to use another-character's-abilities to complete certain-puzzles.
lego-studs, small-coin-like-collectibles which serve as the-game's-currency, can be collected by finding lego-studs, small-coin-like-collectibles which serve as the-game's-currency, smashing or using the-force on certain-objects, or defeating enemies.
when the-player first starts the-game, the-player must first complete chapter i of the-phantom-menace
however, once that-chapter is completed, the-player may choose to play any-unlocked-levels from the-other-two-movies in the-other-two-movies desired-order.
the-background-music is the-same-music used in the-star-wars-movies, but as the-game was released before episode-iii's-soundtrack, music from the-original-trilogy (1977, 1980 and 1983) was used for that-movie's-levels.
jar-jar-binks, general-grievous and his-bodyguard have the-super-jump, which allows jar-jar-binks, general-grievous and his-bodyguard to reach obstacles that the-jedi and sith can not jump to.
droids, while unarmed, can travel through the-game without being intentionally attacked by enemy-characters.
because the-game is based on the-prequel-trilogy (1999, 2002, 2005), luke-skywalker, han-solo, lando-calrissian and other-characters from the-original-star-wars-trilogy (1977, 1980 and 1983) are not shown, and appear in the-sequel-lego-star-wars-ii:
however, if the-player unlocks the-last-level (an-episode-4-preview), darth-vader, a-stormtrooper, a-rebel-trooper and princess-leia become available.
r2-d2 are unlockable in the-game since r2-d2 appear in the-prequel trilogy also.
once a-non-vehicle-level has been cleared in story-mode, the-player may play through a-non-vehicle-level again in free-play-mode.
at any-point, the-player can rotate instantly between each of the-chosen-characters to access areas not accessible during the-story-mode and obtain hidden-extras.
dexter's diner === is the-area where the-player chooses what-level to enter, or they can enter the-parking-lot to view any-vehicles whose-parts they have found and pieced together.
battles often take place in the-parking-lot between canon-good-and-canon-evil-characters, such as jedi and sith, respectively.
at the-diner-counter, the-player may purchase, or enter codes, to unlock extras in exchange for lego-studs they have collected by playing through the-levels.
the-plot of the-game is a-humorous-retelling of star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, as well as a-bonus-level with the-opening of star-wars:
new-hope from the-viewpoint of darth-vader aboard the-tantive-iv.
in 2003, traveller's-tales started the-work on the-game with assistance from lego-interactive, who would also publish the-game.
the-pc-version received a-score of 77/100 from metacritic and the-game maintained a-consistently-high-position at the-top of the-uk-charts in may 2005.lego
star-wars was the-thirteenth-best-selling-game of 2005.
in the-united-states, the-game's-game-boy-advance-version alone sold 580,000-copies and earned $17 million by august 2006.
during the-period between january 2000 and august 2006, it was the-49th-highest-selling-game launched for the-game-boy-advance, nintendo-ds or playstation-portable in that-country.
by july 2006, the-playstation-2-version of lego-star-wars had sold 1-million-copies and earned $34 million in the-united-states alone.
ign rated the-game 8 out of 10 saying, "if you're a-parent, lego star wars:
and that's what makes it enjoyable for adults too, because let's face it; darth-vader makes everything better -- it's a-fact."
the-original-trilogy, was released in september 2006, while a-compilation, lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga, was released in november 2007 and lego-star-wars iii:
the-clone-wars was released in march 2011.
the-force awakens, based on the-2015-film of the-same-name, was released in june 2016, and lego-star-wars:
the-video-game at mobygames below is a-list of actors and actresses that are part of the-voice-cast of the-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars and the-video-game at
actors from the-live-action-films who returned to reprise their-roles for the-show include: wood as the-b1-battle-droids and general-grievous, ahmed-best as jar-jar-binks (although binks was voiced by phil-lamarr in three-early-episodes), daniels as c-3po, burtt as r2-d2, chewbacca, and darth-vader's-breaths, daniel-logan as the-young-clone-trooper-cadets and boba-fett, liam-neeson as qui-gon-jinn, and pernilla-august as shmi-skywalker, respectively.
actors who appear by original-recordings from revenge of the-sith to represent their-characters in the-final-season-episode "shattered" include: hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, jackson as mace-windu and ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine.
list of star-wars cast members ==
the-clone-wars at the-internet-movie-database-star-wars:
the-old-republic is a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe.
developed by bioware-austin and a-supplemental-team at bioware-edmonton, a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe was announced on october 21, 2008.
a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe was released for the-microsoft-windows-platform on december 20, 2011 in north-america and part of europe.
this-story takes place in the-star-wars-universe shortly after the-establishment of a-tenuous-peace between the-re-emergent-sith-empire and the-galactic-republic.
different-classes favor different-styles of gameplay, and the-game features extensive-customization-options, fully voiced dialogue, companion-characters, and dialogue-options similar to bioware's-other-role-playing-games.
the-game had one-million-subscribers within three-days of the-game launch, making the-game the world's "fastest-growing mmo ever", however, in the-following-months the-game lost a-fair-share of the-game subscriptions, but has remained profitable.
the-game has since adopted the hybrid free-to-play business model with remaining-subscription-option.
the-game was met with positive-reception upon release and has received several-updates and expansion-packs.
several-books and comics based on the-game have been released.
the-game is estimated that the-game made $139 million in additional-revenues on top of the-subscription-income in 2013.
in an-earnings-call to investors in october 2019, electronic-arts announced that star wars:
the-old-republic was closing in on a-billion-dollars in lifetime-revenue, making the-old-republic a huge financial success based on the-reported-$200-million-development-budget.
this-story takes place in the-star-wars--fictional-universe shortly after the-establishment of a-tenuous-peace between the-re-emergent-sith-empire and the-galactic-republic, 300 years after the-events of the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-games, and more than 3,600 years before the-events in the-star-wars films.
the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic are held responsible for the-success of the-sith during the-devastating-28-year-long-great-galactic-war (which led to the-treaty of coruscant prior to the-"cold-war"), and thus choose to relocate from coruscant to tython, where the-jedi-order had initially been founded, to seek guidance from the-force.
the-game itself is set in the-cold-war soon after these-events, with the-jedi-order and galactic-republic struggling to maintain the-jedi-order and galactic-republic control of the-core-worlds while the sith plot the-jedi-order and galactic-republic downfall and the-expansion of the-sith-empire.
bioware stated, prior to release, that the-game itself would have a-significant-focus on the-storyline.
the-old-republic –-threat of peace and star-wars:
the-old-republic – blood of the-empire
, the-purpose of which is to establish the-backstory as the-game opens and closes.
while each-class in the-old-republic favors a-certain-play-style (ranged/melee-damage, healing or support skills, or tanking), customization combined with companion-characters allow for a-class to be able to tackle many-different-situations, with or without the-support of other-player-characters, and without requiring specific-other-classes in order to move forward.
it is intended that the-game should provide more-context for characters'-missions than any-previous-mmorpg.
a-tunnel-shooter, otherwise known as a-scrolling-shooter-or-rail-shooter, is a-flying-game where the-player is on a-predetermined-track.
like many-other-mmorpgs, the-game features dungeons and raids in the-form of flashpoints and operations respectively.
a-range of playable-species are available for the-player to choose from, some limited to some-factions.
some can play human, cyborg (human-based), twi'lek or zabrak (whose-appearances are initially different depending on which-side the-character is from).
the-cathar were added to the-game during patch 2.1, and is available to all-players who unlock more-playable-species through the-cartel-market.
the-release of the-expanded-"legacy"-system in april 2012 allows for species to be able to play all-classes (both-empire and republic) by unlocking that-species with an-infusion of in-game money or by levelling a-character of that-race to level 50.
by the-same-method, unlocking the-zabrak-species allows users to play both-appearances regardless from which side the-character is from.
the-game features a-passive-form of crafting, known as crew-skills, in which a-player's-companions carry out gathering and crafting tasks asynchronously to the-player's-adventures out in the-world.
the-player can assign up-to-five-companions to perform up-to-3-various-skills.
crafting-skills allow the-player's-companions to create items, and the-player can reverse engineer many-items to possibly learn to make a-better-version.
the-item is destroyed in the-process, but the-player gets some of the-materials back.
options for some-new-companions were implemented in knights of the-fallen-empire, and expanded for some-new-and-original-companions with knights of the-eternal-empire up to marriage.
the-old-republic required a-monthly-subscription to play, following a-month of play included with the-initial-purchase.
after launch, the-game's-subscribers rose to 1.7 million by february 2012.
by july 2012, the-subscriber-base fell below 1 million, prompting ea to convert the-game to free-to-play.
ea stated that 500,000-subscribers were needed to make the-game profitable saying that 500,000-subscribers were "well above"
on november 15, 2012, the free-to-play option went live on all-servers.
as of august 2014 the-game has over-one-million-monthly-players.
the-old-republic is bioware's-first-entry into the-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg)-market, and is the-third-star-wars-mmorpg after star-wars-galaxies, which was shut down in december 2011, the-same-month-swtor was released and clone-wars-adventures, which was shut down in march 2014.
bioware had long been interested in working on a-mmorpg, but waited until bioware had "the-right-partners, the-right-team, and the-right-i.p."-a-major-focus in the-game is on developing characters'-individual-stories and, in october 2008, bioware considered the-game to have more-story-content than all of bioware other games combined.
an-october-2008-preview noted some of the-12-full-time-writers had been working on the-old-republic for more-than-two-years at that-point.
the-game had 1-million-subscribers within three-days of the-game launch, making the-game the world's "fastest-growing mmo ever".
however, in the-following-months the-game lost a-fair-share of the-game subscriptions, but has remained profitable.
the-game has since adopted the hybrid free-to-play business model with remaining-subscription-option.
it is estimated that the-game made $139 million in additional-revenues, in addition to the-subscription-income, in 2013.the-game's-first-cinematic-trailer, "deceived", was shown at the-electronic-arts-2009-e3-press-conference on june 1, 2009.
on september 29, 2009, bioware announced that bioware would be accepting applications for testers from the-game-community.
although released in most-regions of the-world, ea have said australasia will be getting the-game at a-later-date.
however, bioware revealed that the-game would not be region or ip blocked, allowing players to purchase the-game from other-regions.
bioware-community-manager-allison-berryman said "data from this-test will be used to inform decisions about the-launch of the-game in oceanic-regions", however, bioware-community-manager-allison-berryman was unable to provide any-information in regards to the-game's launch in oceanic-regions.
on october 11, 2011, bioware announced that star-wars: the-old-republic would be released globally on december 20, 2011.
on december 21, 2011, bioware announced that an-australian-and-new-zealand-release-date had been set for march 1, 2012.
early-access to the-game was granted one week before release, on december 13, 2011, for those who had pre-ordered the-game online; access opened in "waves" based on pre-order-date.
patch (1.2) was released on april 12, 2012.
in january 2012, star-wars: the-old-republic was officially recognized by guinness-world-records as the-"largest-entertainment-voice over project ever", with over-200,000-lines of recorded-dialogue.
on april 26, 2012, bioware announced that the-game was available in the-middle-east and remaining european countries who were excluded from the-original-launch.
on july 21, 2020, the-game became available on steam.
in october 2012, bioware announced the-old-republic's-first-digital-expansion-pack, rise of the-hutt-cartel.
rise of the-hutt-cartel was released on april 14, 2013.
those who pre-ordered the-expansion prior to january 7, 2013, were allowed early-access on april 9.
in october 2013, bioware announced bioware next-expansion, which unlike bioware predecessor rise of the-hutt-cartel did not include any-story-content, however, galactic-starfighter introduced 12v12-space-based-pvp-combat on two-maps, with 2 'capture-the-flag' combat missions.
subscribers began subscribers early-access on december 3, 2013, with full-subscriber-awards if subscribers maintained an-active-subscription on november 1.
subscribers received early-access august 19, 2014, as well as access to the-exclusive-"nar-shaddaa-sky-palace"; preferred-access-players received early-access starting in september.
on october 6, bioware announced the-second-planned-expansion, entitled shadow of revan.
the-campaign raised the-level-cap to 60, and takes place on two-new-worlds: rishi, a-tropical-pirate-haven on the-edge of the-galaxy, and yavin 4 (which first appeared in the-original-star-wars-film), home of an-ancient-sith-warrior-sect called the massassi.
players who preordered before november 2, 2014, received an-experience-boost that granted twelve-times-multiplicative-experience for class-related-missions, seven days of early-access, a grand statue of revan for placement in strongholds, and a free edition of rise of the-hutt-cartel (to give to another-player).
the-expansion was released on december 9, 2014.
knights of the-fallen-empire ===
in june 2015, the-third-expansion for the-game, titled knights of the-fallen-empire, was announced at ea's-e3-2015-press-conference.
knights of the-fallen-empire features a-renewed-focus on cinematic-storytelling, as well as new-planets, new-companions, a-dynamic-story affected by player-choices and a-level-cap of 65.
the-first-nine-chapters of knights of the-fallen-empire were launched on october 27, 2015, with additional-chapters starting in early 2016.
after the-release of knights of the-fallen-empire, rise of the-hutt-cartel and shadow of revan became free for those subscribing to the-game, and access remains on the-account if a-subscription is canceled.
the-release of knights of the-fallen-empire depicts the-story of "the-outlander" - the-player-character.
the-alliance-system entails recruiting-allies, including some-companions from other-classes that formerly were restricted, from across the-galaxy to join the-fight against the-eternal-empire.
knights of the-eternal-throne ====
in december 2016, knights of the-eternal-throne was released as the-fourth-expansion and sixth-major-update that coincided with the-game's-five-year-anniversary.
it continued the-story of the-outlander.
during the-expansion, developers released several-key-updates and patches that continued the-story and added new-activities for players to engage in.
in april 2019, it was announced on the-official-site that the-next-expansion, onslaught, would be released in september 2019.
in august, it was announced that the-release-date for onslaught had been moved back from september 2019 to october 22, 2019.
chronicle-books released the-art and making of star-wars: the-old-republic in november 2011, which chronicles the-creation of the-game and includes concept-artwork and interviews from the-development-team.
leading up to game's-release on december 20, bioware released music-tracks from the-game each day which were not included with the-soundtrack which came with the-collector's-edition of the-game.
razer released several-peripherals based on the-game to coincide with the-launch-date.
several-peripherals based on the-game included custom made keyboards, mice, gaming-headsets and mouse-pads.
in august 2012, lego announced plans to release two-sets based on the-game, the-sith-fury-class-interceptor and the-striker-class-starfighter.
at star-wars-celebration in 2019, kathleen-kennedy revealed that lucasfilm was in the-tentative-stages of developing an-adaptation of knights of the-old-republic.
the-story spans ten years from the-signing of the-treaty of coruscant to the-events that start the-game.
a-second-internet-comic titled blood of the-empire has been released and follows the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission.
the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission is produced by dark-horse and written by bioware's-senior-writer alexander-freed.
the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission is set 25 years before the-treaty of coruscant, and offers readers a-new-perspective of the-events leading up to the-start of the-old-republic.
a-sneak-preview of the-art was released, followed by the-first-issue on april 23, 2010.
drew-karpyshyn wrote a-novel titled revan, published on november 15, 2011.
annihilation, that was released on november 13, 2012.
the-old-republic has received generally-positive-reviews from critics, with a-score of 85 on metacritic and an-84% on gamerankings.
g4tv gave a-review of 5/5 and praised the-game for "top-notch-music and voice acting" and "hundreds of hours of content".
gamespot gave the-game 8.0/10, saying "[the-old-republic] isn't the-next-step in online-role-playing-games.
gamesradar gave the-game 8/10 calling it "an extremely satisfying experience that sets the-stage for a-bright-future".
the-game has received a-9.0/10-"amazing"-rating from ign.com.
msnbc awarded star-wars: the-old-republic as game of the-year.
in 2012, the-ablegamers-foundation awarded star-wars: the-old-republic as the-ablegamers-foundation mainstream game for 2011 for being able to accommodate gamers with special-needs.
platforms: arcade, apple-ii, atari 2600, famicom, nintendo-entertainment-system, super nintendo-entertainment-system, nintendo 64, sega-master-system, sega-dreamcast, game-gear, gamecube, dos, microsoft-windows, macintosh, classic-mac-os, macos, playstation, playstation 2, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, xbox, xbox 360, xbox one, wii, wii u, game boy, game boy color, game boy advance, nintendo ds, playstation portable, ios, android, linux, stadia.
star-wars (1983–88) – arcade
star-wars (1987) –
star-wars (1991–93) – nes, game-boy, master-system, game-gear
snes re-released for: wii-virtual-console, playstation 4, playstation vita star wars arcade (1993) –
the-empire strikes back
the-empire strikes back (1982) –
the-empire strikes back (1985/88)
the-empire strikes back (1992) –
the-empire strikes back (1993) –
return of the-jedi ===
return of the-jedi –-death-star-battle (1983/84) –
return of the-jedi (1984/88) –
return of the-jedi (1994) – snes, game-boy, game-gear
re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020), xbox one (2020)
windows, playstation 2, xbox, arcade
the-clone-wars (2002) – gamecube, playstation 2, xbox-star-wars:
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ===
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005) – playstation 2, xbox, nintendo-ds, game-boy-advance , mobile-phone ==
defender of the-empire (1994) compilation:
dark-forces (1995)-dos, mac, playstation
:-star-wars-jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith (1998)
windows, mac, xbox, gamecube re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2019), playstation 4 (2019)
re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020) ===
– windows, mac, dreamcast, nintendo 64, game-boy-color re-released for: nintendo switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020)
re-released for:-playstation-store (2015), playstation 4 (2019) ===
xbox, playstation 2 ===
knights of the-old-republic ===
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (
2003)-windows, xbox, mac, ios, android-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-old-republic (2011)
: rise of the-hutt-cartel (2013), galactic-starfighter (2014), galactic-strongholds (2014), shadow of revan (2014), knights of the-fallen-empire (2015), knights of the-eternal-throne (2016), and onslaught (2019) ===
pandemic-studios-star-wars: battlefront (2004) – playstation 2, windows, xbox, mac, mobile-phone-star-wars: battlefront ii (2005) – playstation 2, windows, xbox, playstation portable star wars battlefront: renegade-squadron (2007) – playstation portable
mobile-phoneea-dice-star-wars-battlefront (2015) – playstation 4, windows, xbox one
star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017) – playstation 4, windows, xbox one ===
the-force unleashed ===
the-force unleashed
(2008)-windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, wii, nintendo-ds,
2009) windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3 star wars:
the-force unleashed ii
windows, wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, ios
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels (2008) –-wii
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance (2008) –
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes (2009) –
windows, playstation 2, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii
star-wars: shadows of the-empire (1996) – nintendo 64, windows star-wars: masters of teräs-käsi (1997) –
playstation-2-star-wars: bounty-hunter (2002) – gamecube, playstation 2 re-released for: playstation 3 (2015), playstation 4 (2019)
apprentice of the-force (2004) –
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, stadia ===
star-wars: squadrons (2020) – windows, playstation 4, xbox one
the-empire strikes back by hankin
star-wars by stern-pinball
)-windows, mac, wii-u, xbox 360, 3ds, psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, kindle-fire, android, ios-star-wars-episode-v:
the-empire strikes back
the-clone-wars (2013)
balance of the-force (2013)
psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, android, ios-star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (2013)
the-force awakens (2016)
star-wars: resistance star-wars pinball:
the-last-jedi (2018)
the-clone-wars (2008)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005) –-jakks-pacific-tv
star-wars: lightsaber-combat (2005) – mobile phone star-wars trivia (2005) –
star-wars: jedi-assassin (2005) – mobile phone star-wars imperial ace 3d (2006) – mobile phone star-wars cantina (2010) –
in some-cases, lucasfilm has allowed other-video-game-franchises to do lucasfilm own star wars games, resulting in crossover-hybrid-franchises.
windows, mac, playstation 2, xbox, gamecube, nintendo ds,
windows, mac, playstation 2, xbox, xbox 360, gamecube, nintendo ds, game boy advance, playstation portable
the-clone-wars (2011): playstation 3, xbox 360, 3ds, wii, windows, mac, nintendo-ds, nintendo, playstation portable lego star wars:
the-force awakens (2016):
windows, playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii u, mac, nintendo-3ds, playstation vita, ios
windows, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox-one, xbox-series-x, nintendo-switch compilation(s):
windows, playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, mac, nintendo-ds, ios, androidmobile-game and web-browser lego-star-wars: the-quest for r2-d2 (2009):
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, windows-lego-indiana-jones 2:
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation portable,
star-wars (2014-2019):
list of sponsors: star wars rebels:
microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, wii-u, ios, android ===
the-sims 4: journey to batuu (2020): microsoft-windows, mac, playstation 4, xbox-one---ninth-game-pack for the-sims 4.
star-wars (2020):
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, nintendo-switch, amazon-kindle-fire, amazon-fire-tv, ios, android, oculus-rift, gear-vr---dlc for minecraft: bedrock-edition purchasable through the minecraft market place.
adds star-wars-maps, quests, mobs, skins, items and vehicles from the-original-trilogy and the-mandalorian into the-game.
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-secret-weapons over normandy (2003) –
xbox, playstation 2 , pc
xbox, playstation 2-soulcalibur-iv (2008) –
at release featuring darth-vader exclusively in the-playstation-3-version, with yoda exclusively in the-xbox-360-version, and darth-vader's apprentice galen starkiller marek in both-versions.
months after the-release, darth-vader and yoda were made available for purchase as downloadable-content, each at the-version darth-vader and yoda were absent at release.
however, in late 2016, all-dlc in soulcalibur-iv was removed from the-playstation-and-microsoft-stores due to licensing from the-purchase of star-wars by disney.
wii, playstation 2, nintendo ds,
return of the-jedi – ewok-adventure – atari
star-wars: battlefront-iii (2008) playstation 3, windows, xbox 360 star-wars:
star-wars 1313 (2013)
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-iii (windows, xbox)
the-force-unleashed-iii (windows, wii-u, xbox-one, playstation 4)
project-ragtag (windows, xbox-one, playstation 4) ==
it takes place during the-dark-times, when the-galactic-empire is hunting down the last of the-jedi while a-fledgling-rebellion against the-galactic-empire is emerging.
the-visual-style of the-series is inspired by the-original-star-wars-trilogy concept art by ralph-mcquarrie.
the-series features new-characters, along with some from the-original-trilogy and from the-previous-animated-series, the-clone-wars.
the-series premiered as a-one-hour-television-film, spark of rebellion, on october 3, 2014, on disney-channel prior to the-premiere of the-series on october 13 on disney-xd.
the-third-season premiered on september 24, 2016, with the-television-film, steps into shadow.
the-fourth-and-final-season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore.
the fourth and final season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore-final-episode aired on march 5, filoni served as executive-producers of season one.
the-series has been generally well-received with several-award-wins and nominations.
fourteen years after the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order and the-rise of the-galactic-empire depicted in revenge of the-sith, a-motley-group of rebels unite aboard a-freighter-starship called the ghost and begin to conduct covert-operations against the-imperial-garrison on and around the-planet-lothal and other-planets that are menaced by the-galactic-empire.
steven-blum as garazeb-"zeb"-orrelios, a-former-lasat-honor-guard-member who wants the-empire to pay for enslaving his-people.
sam-witwer as maul (seasons 2–3), a-former-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who is attempting to hunt down obi-wan-kenobi.
james-earl-jones as darth-vader, an-evil-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who was once jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker.
sam-witwer and ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-ruler of the-galaxy and also known as darth-sidious, sith-master of darth-vader.
frank-oz as yoda, the-wise-and-powerful-grand-master of the-jedi who is exiled on the-planet-dagobah.
the-first-two-episodes, titled spark of rebellion, premiered on october 3, 2014, on disney-channels worldwide and on family-channel in canada.
in australia, the series premiered on october 17 on disney-xd.
the-siege of lothal premiered on june 28, 2015, and the-second-season debuted on october 18.
in canada, the series premiered on october 19 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd.
however, due to dhx-media losing the-rights to disney-content, the-show was later moved to disney-channel.
the second season premiered on november 7, and the-show was moved to disney-channel on december 1.in
the-middle-east and africa, spark of rebellion premiered on october 11 and the-series debuted on october 18 on disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on october 10, followed the-official-season-premiere on october 17.
in southeast-asia, spark of rebellion premiered on disney-xd on october 4 and the-series officially started on november 29.
siege of lothal premiered on october 3 on disney-xd-and-disney-channel, and the-second-season was released on october 24.
in the-united-kingdom and ireland, the-series debuted on october 16 on disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on july 18, 2015, followed by the-second-season-debut on october 17.
spark of rebellion was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd in the-us at all-retailers on october 14, 2014.
one of star-wars-rebels was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd and blu-ray on september 1, 2015, in america, and in germany on september 10, 2015.
the-complete-season two of star-wars-rebels was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd and blu-ray on august 30, 2016, in north-america.
the-complete-season two of star-wars-rebels-star-wars-rebels was released on dvd and blu-ray on august 29, 2017.
the complete season four is announced to be released on dvd and blu-ray on november 15, 2018, in germany, and july 31, 2018, in north-america.
the-series is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
in the-united-kingdom, the-film was the-highest-rated-broadcast that week, with 81,000-viewers.
the-rise of skywalker during the-final-battle over exegol.
the-voice of freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus can also heard in the-2019-film star-wars as one of the-voices of jedi past who provide rey with encouragement to defeat emperor-palpatine.
on september 2, 2014, del-rey-books published star-wars: a-new-dawn, a-prequel-novel by john-jackson-miller telling the-story of how kanan and hera met (set about six years before the-series).
a-sequel to thrawn, titled thrawn: alliances explored thrawn's partnerships with darth-vader and anakin-skywalker.
it takes place during the-events of rebels'-fourth-season.
from april 1, 2015, through march 16, 2016, marvel-comics published a-12-issue-comic-series, titled kanan, and set during the-events of the-first-season.
written by former-executive-producer of the-series greg-weisman and illustrated by pepe-larraz, jacopo-camagni and andrea-broccardo, the-story is centered on kanan having flashbacks to kanan days as a-padawan in the-jedi-temple and the-clone-wars.
additionally, several of the-characters from the-series are playable in other-games such as disney-infinity 3.0, angry-birds-star-wars-ii, roblox (as virtual-accessories and gears), lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens (as downloadable-content only),
the-force awakens –
original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 18, 2015, in both-digipak-cd and digital-formats.
for the-score, john-williams received john-williams 50th oscar nomination, being nominated for the-academy-award for best-original-score, john-williams first nomination for a-star-wars-film since return of the-jedi.
john-williams won the-saturn-award for best-music, john-williams first win since revenge of the-sith.
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
the-music from the-first-two-trailers for the-film was reworked from earlier-compositions.
john-williams began working on the-score in december 2014 and by june 2015, john-williams had been through most of the-film-reels, working on a-daily-basis.
in may 2015, john-williams said john-williams would reuse themes from the-previous-films, such as those for luke, leia and han, in ways that "will seem very natural and right in the-moments for which we've chosen to do these-kinds of quotes.
the-london-symphony-orchestra recorded 175-minutes of music, although nearly-an-hour of that was discarded, modified, or rerecorded as abrams re-edited the-film.
gustavo-dudamel conducted the-opening-and-end-title-music for the-film at williams'-behest.
the-last-recording-session took place on november 14, 2015.leading up to the-release of the-force
it’s just-so-good-hearing williams return to this-universe."
the-soundtrack debuted at number five on the-billboard 200-chart for the-week ending november 26, 2015, with 100,000-album-equivalent-units, of which 94,000 were pure-album-sales.
the-jedi-soundtrack has sold 206,000-copies in the-us as of april 2016.
return of the-jedi is a-1984-arcade-game by atari, inc. and the--follow-up to 1983's-star-wars-arcade-game.
the-game is included as an-unlockable-extra on star wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike for gamecube.
the-player takes control of three-different-vehicles in stages based upon the-return of the-jedi-film.
in the-first-stage, the-player pilots a-speeder-bike to the-ewok-village.
return of the-jedi on the-jedi february 15, 1985 issue as being the-sixth-most-successful-upright-arcade-unit of the-year.
return of the-jedi at the-killer-list of videogames return of the-jedi at the arcade history database return of the-jedi at the-gameroom-blog-star-wars: droids – the-adventures of r2-d2 and c-3po is a-1985-animated-television-series spin off from the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
it focuses on the-exploits of droids r2-d2 and c-3po between the-events of revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope.
the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with lucasfilm sister series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series
during the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with its-sister-series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series ran for one-season of 13-half-hour-episodes; an-hour-long-special-broadcast in 1986 serves as the-finale-adventures, the-droids find the-droids in the-service of successive-new-masters, and encounter minor-characters from the-original-trilogy such as boba-fett and ig-88.
the-series was retroactively placed four years after revenge of the-sith and fifteen years before the-events of a-new-hope.
in the-latter-film, c-3po tells luke-skywalker that his-and-r2-d2's-"last-master was captain-antilles.
" the-droids are placed in antilles'-care by bail-organa at the-end of revenge of the-sith, creating an-apparent-continuity-error.
; anthony-daniels as c-3po also portrayed the-character in the-films.
the-series was produced by the-canadian-company nelvana for lucasfilm.
the-series in bbc-television entirety between 1986 and 1991 as part of the-children's-bbc-programming-strand.
the-series was shown twice within this-time (in 1986 and 1988 to coincide with the-full-release of the-star-wars-trilogy as well as droids on vhs).
the-series was broadcast on abc with abc sister series ewoks (as part of the-ewoks-and-droids-adventure-hour).
the-series falls into three-cycles or arcs; the-droids usually run into the-droids new-masters at the-beginning of each, and at the-end are forced to leave.
run which included a-new-hope , the-empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, planet of the-hoojibs, droid-world and return of the-jedi: the-battle of endor due to poor-reflective-sales of buena-vista's-"further-adventure"-series overseas which included mission to ord-mantell, an-ewok-adventure and ewoks: the-battle for endor.
cover of the-series were drawn by john-romita, sr.
almost-all-episodes of the-series (except "coby and the-starhunters") were released on vhs in the-1980s and 1990s, most notably the uk pal releases over four-cassettes (droids 1–3 and the-great-heep), which had the-opening-sequences and credits edited out.
on april 2, 2021, it was announced that the-entire-series would be released on disney+
several-references to the-animated-series are made in the-prequels, such as the-boonta-eve-classic in the-phantom-menace, the-planet-bogden and a-four-armed-cook in attack of the-clones, and general-grievous'-wheel-bike-design in revenge of the-sith.
additionally, possible-sources of inspiration for sequel trilogy-main-characters rey and kylo-ren have been noticed.
star-wars: droids 1985, george-lucas, ben burtt star-wars insider #27
most of the-games in the-series are tactical-role-playing-games but several-games representing other-genres were also released.
list is divided by video-game-genre and ordered by initial-release-date.
since the-show's-debut on november 12, 2019, only-one-character has appeared in every-episode: the-protagonist and title-character, a-bounty-hunter named, "din-djarin".
these include allies of the-mandalorian such as cara-dune, greef-karga, ig-11, kuiil, and the-armorer.
the-primary-villains of the-series belong to a-remnant of the-galactic-empire, which is led by moff-gideon and includes such-agents as the-client and dr.-pershing.
a-handful of guest-characters made appearances in single-episodes, including villagers from the-planet sorgan in "chapter 4: sanctuary", a-band of mercenaries in "chapter 6: the-prisoner", and several-minor-antagonists.
the-mandalorian, sometimes abbreviated as mando, is a-sobriquet for din-djarin, the-protagonist of the-mandalorian television series.
the-show's-breakout-character was conceived by jon-favreau out of a-desire to explore the-mystery around yoda and the-show's-breakout-character species, and was developed in early-conversations about the-series between jon-favreau and executive-producer-dave-filoni.
greef-karga is a-leader of the-bounty-hunters'-guild, who serves as both-an-ally and adversary to the-mandalorian at different-points in the-show's-first-season.
operating out of the-planet nevarro, greef gives assignments to bounty-hunters and ensures everyone follows the-guild's-code.
greef provides the-assignment that leads the-mandalorian to meet the-child.
when the-mandalorian refuses to turn the-child over to the-imperials, greef leads a-group of bounty-hunters in an-unsuccessful-attempt to take the-child from the-child.
greef later devises a-plan to kill the-mandalorian and return the-child to the-imperials, but when the-child saves the-child life, greef has a-change of heart and helps protect greef from the-empire.
carl-weathers accepted the-part under the-condition that carl-weathers could direct future-episodes of the-mandalorian in the-second-season.
greef-karga was originally to appear only in a-handful of episodes, but jon-favreau and the-writers liked the-character so much that the-part was expanded.
the-character has received generally-positive-feedback from fans and reviewers.
the-mandalorian delivers the-child to the-client, but later rescues the-child back.
the-client conspires to recapture the-mandalorian and the-child, but after the-mandalorian returns to him, the-client is shot and killed by stormtroopers under gideon's-orders.
the-mandalorian", in which he is present on an-imperial-compound on nevarro when the-client hires the-mandalorian to track down and deliver the-child.
pershing appears again in "chapter 3: the sin", when the-mandalorian delivers the-child to the-client.
the-mandalorian later returns to the-imperial-compound to rescue the-child, killing all-the-stormtroopers there and finding pershing with the-child, who is sedated and strapped into laboratory-equipment.
when the-mandalorian threatens pershing, the-scientist pleads for mercy and insists the-scientist protected the-child and prevented the-child from being killed.
the-mandalorian takes the-child and leaves pershing unharmed.
in the-season-finale, dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval is captured by the-mandalorian and dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval companions; dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval helps dr.-pershing of grogu's-retrieval captors infiltrate gideon's-ship in order to rescue grogu.
a-former-indentured-servant of the-galactic-empire is living in solitude on the-planet arvala-7 when a-former-indentured-servant of the-galactic-empire encounters the-mandalorian, who comes to the-planet to find and capture the-child.
kuiil also rebuilds the-bounty-hunter-droid ig-11 after the-mandalorian destroys him.
kuiil and ig-11 later join the-mandalorian on a-mission to protect the-child from the-imperial-remnant on the-planet-nevarro, where kuiil is shot and killed by imperial-scout-troopers while attempting to bring the-child to safety.
they work together to extract the-child from a-gang of mercenaries, but when ig-11 tries to kill the-child, the-mandalorian instead shoots and kills the-droid.
the-droid later joins the-mandalorian on a-mission to nevarro to protect the-child from the-imperial-remnant, and though the-mandalorian does not initially trust the-child,
in the-first-season-finale "chapter 8: redemption", the-armorer instructs the-mandalorian to watch over and protect the-child, and to reunite the-child with others of the-child own-kind.
cara first encounters the-mandalorian on the-planet-sorgan, where cara work together to protect a-local-village from raiders.
carano performed many of carano own-stunts, and carano credits bryce-dallas-howard, who directed the-character's-first-appearance in "chapter 4: sanctuary", with helping translate the-character from the-script to the-screen.
the-mandalorian hires the-mandalorian to repair the-mandalorian ship, and the-mandalorian also comes to take care of the-child.
the-mandalorian later gives the-bounty-hunter-toro-calican the-task of taking the-frog-lady to trask where the-mandalorian husband has knowledge of other-mandalorians'-whereabouts.
when fennec tries to convince toro to free toro so they could capture the-mandalorian and deliver toro to the-bounty-hunters'-guild, toro instead kills fennec and seeks to capture the-mandalorian.
several-reviewers felt the-character was eliminated too quickly and did not get the-chance to live up to the-character potential, and some-critics have speculated that the-character could still be alive.
gideon reveals gideon knows secret-details about the mandalorian and gideon allies, and is the-first-character in the-series to reveal the-mandalorian's-real-name, din-djarin.
later in the-season, gideon apprehends grogu and seeks to continue the-experimentation, but the-mandalorian captures dr.-pershing and infiltrates gideon's ship.
gideon battles the-mandalorian with the-darksaber, but is ultimately defeated.
as a-platoon of dark-troopers attempt to rescue him, luke-skywalker arrives and destroys the-droids.
grogu is taken by skywalker to be trained as a-jedi.
having survived the sarlacc pit boba fett ==== fell into in return of the-jedi, boba fett ====
makes boba fett ==== return in a-silent-cameo in "chapter 9:
initially demanding din to return din armor which the latter had acquired from cobb-vanth, din and fennec later aid din in battling gideon's-forces as gideon regains gideon armor in the-process.
episode-ii---attack of the-clones and voiced boba in the-2004-dvd-releases of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
the-heiress" enlists the-mandalorian to take the-heiress" and the-heiress" eggs to the-moon-trask to be reunited with the-heiress" husband, who can fertilize her-eggs, in exchange for information on other-mandalorians'-whereabouts.
because of her-eggs-fragility, her-eggs have to travel at "sub-light", and end up crashing on an-icy-planet to avoid a-x-wing-fighter-patrol who have an-arrest-warrant for the-mandalorian since he has helped break out qin from the-new-republic-transport.
they are nearly killed by a-swarm of spider-like-krynka, but are rescued by the-x-wing-pilots who let the-mandalorian go with a-warning because he assisted in the-capture of the-others involved in the-prison-break.
the-mandalorian leaves the-child with the-frog-lady and the-frog-man to babysit.
in "chapter 11: the-heiress", bo-katan and the-nite-owls-rescue the-mandalorian and the-child.
the-mandalorian leaves rejecting their-help.
in return for information later-bo-katan and the-nite-owls reluctantly agrees to help them seize a-shipment of weapons.
bo-katan was impressed by the-mandalorian and invites bo-katan to join they, but bo-katan must continue bo-katan quest, so
bo-katan returns in chapter 16 and helps the-mandalorian to rescue the-child from moff-gideon.
bo-katan is portrayed by katee-sackhoff, who previously voiced the-character in animated-form in star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels.
several-characters have been featured in a-single-episode within a-season of the-mandalorian in which several-characters play a-significant-role.
an-unnamed-mythrol appears in the-opening-scenes of the-series-premiere "chapter 1: the-mandalorian", in which the-mandalorian captures him to collect a-bounty.
==== is a-young-bounty-hunter who encountered the-mandalorian in episode "chapter 5
toro later double-crosses the-mandalorian and attempts to turn toro over to the-guild, but is instead shot and killed by the-mandalorian.
after the-mission, ran tries to have the-mandalorian killed, but instead the-mandalorian space station is attacked by new-republic-x-wing-fighters, which were led there by the-mandalorian.
fans reacted positively to ran's-character and boone's-performance, and the-character was included on vulture's-list of the-show's-15-best-cameo-appearances from season one.
mayfeld-clashes repeatedly with the-mandalorian during the-mission, and ultimately attempts to betray migs-mayfeld
after moff-gideon's-dark-troopers make off with grogu, the-mandalorian later asks cara-dune about where mayfeld is being held.
the-mandalorian goes instead but the-terminal requires a-facial-scan, and the-mandalorian removes the-mandalorian helmet to acquire the-codes.
the-mandalorian is confronted by hess, but mayfeld intervenes.
after getting what they need, dune and the-mandalorian allow mayfeld to leave while covering this up by stating that he was killed in action.
mayfeld is portrayed by actor-and-comedian-bill-burr, who was not a-fan of star-wars and repeatedly mocked the-franchise and mayfeld fans before he accepted the-role.
the-character of mayfeld received a-generally-positive-response from reviewers, and several-critics noted that mayfeld's sardonic personality and hard-edged-sense of humor are similar to burr's-real-life-comedic-style.
she attempts to betray the-mandalorian during the-mission, but instead the-mandalorian incapacitates xi'an and locks she in a-cell on the-prison-transport.
extremely-strong,-ranzar-"ran"-malk's repeatedly mocks the-mandalorian during the-mandalorian time together, at one-point attempting to forcibly remove ranzar-"ran"-malk's-helmet.
burg attempts to betray the-mandalorian during the-mission, but the-mandalorian defeats the-mandalorian in a-fight, and locks the-mandalorian into a-cell on the-prison-transport.
in "chapter 10: the-passenger", it is revealed that the-mandalorian has kept q9-0's remains on the-razor-crest.
at one-point, the-frog-lady uses the-droid's-vocabulator to better communicate with the-mandalorian so that the-frog-lady can understand what the-frog-lady is saying.
the-character received generally-positive-reviews from critics.
qin blamed the-mandalorian for qin imprisonment.
after the-team infiltrates the-ship and recovers qin, the-team lock the-mandalorian in qin's cell and attempt to abandon qin there, but qin escapes.
= is a-abyssin-gangster whom the-mandalorian sought out for information on any-mandalorian-sightings in "chapter 9:
when the-mandalorian approaches the-marshal" while the-marshal" is watching a-ring-fight, gor koresh ====
orders the-marshal"-henchmen to kill the-marshal" and steal the-marshal" beskar armor, but the-mandalorian defeats his-beskar-armor and interrogates koresh, who informs his-beskar-armor of a-mandalorian-warrior operating on tatooine.
the-mandalorian then leaves koresh hanging from the-lamppost which koresh shoots the-lights out as nocturnal-creatures start to close in.
in "chapter 9: the-marshal", the-mandalorian is told to seek out cobb by people who had mistaken cobb for an-actual-mandalorian because of cobb armor.
when the-mandalorian meets cobb and finds out the-truth, cobb demands that cobb remove cobb armor.
their-stand-off is interrupted by the-attack of a-krayt-dragon that has been terrorizing mos-pelgo, and cobb persuades the-mandalorian to assist the-mandalorian in killing the-mandalorian in exchange for his-armor.
together, their form an unlikely alliance between the-townspeople and the-tusken-raiders to eliminate their-common-enemy, before the-mandalorian comes up with a-strategy to use a-bantha as a-suicide-bomber and have the-mandalorian detonate once the-dragon eats the-mandalorian.
when the-plan fails, the-mandalorian decides to allow the-mandalorian to be eaten as well in order to manually detonate the-explosives, and entrusts cobb to look after the-child, should the-mandalorian perish.
the-mandalorian survives and, with the-dragon slain, the-dragon parts ways amicably with cobb, who hands the-dragon the-dragon armor.
when the-mandalorian arrived in calidan, lang took lang to morgan.
lang later led lang troops into fighting ahsoka and the-mandalorian when his-troops attacked calodan and took down the-soldiers loyal to morgan.
is a-togruta, former-jedi-padawan to anakin-skywalker, and whom the-mandalorian seeks out in order to return the-child to the-child species.
the-mandalorian met ahsoka-tano, and she was able to interact with the-child without words as they can feel each-other's-thoughts.
the-mandalorian and ahsoka work together to liberate calodan from elsbeth who is defeated by ahsoka.
the-character was previously voiced by ashley-eckstein in star-wars:
when the-mandalorian arrived on corvus, morgan contracted morgan to find ahsoka, for which she will give morgan a-pure-beskar-staff as reward.
the-mandalorian and ahsoka worked together to liberate calidan from morgan's-rule.
luke-skywalker ====
luke-skywalker is the-jedi-master who responds to grogu's-transmission through the-force, rescuing him from gideon's-dark-troopers in "chapter 16:
luke is portrayed by mark-hamill.
several-characters have appeared on the-mandalorian in minor-roles or significant-cameo-appearances.
he appears in the-episode "chapter 3: the-sin", where he initially quarrels with the-mandalorian for working with the-empire, but later comes to he assistance when the-mandalorian is being attacked.
paz-vizsla is voiced by jon-favreau, who previously voiced a-similarly-named-mandalorian-warlord named pre vizsla on the-series star wars: the-clone-wars.
when the-villagers hire the-mandalorian and cara-dune to protect the-villagers from klatooinian-raiders, omera befriends the-mandalorian, and the two appear attracted to each other.
chapter-4"-director-bryce-dallas-howard said it was challenging directing emotional-scenes between omera and the-mandalorian because chapter-4"-director-bryce-dallas-howard always wears a-helmet, but that the-scenes worked because "julia is deeply connected to julia emotions
the-character of omera has received mixed-reviews from critics.
she develops a-close-friendship with the-child after the-mandalorian brings the-child to the-village.
the two hire the-mandalorian to provide protection from klatooinian-raiders attacking the-village.
riot-mar is a-bounty-hunter who attempts to recover the-child from the-mandalorian in "chapter 5
riot-pilots a-starfighter and attacks the-mandalorian's-ship, but is killed by the-mandalorian after a-brief-dogfight.
despite efforts by the-mandalorian to save him, davan is murdered by a-gang of mercenaries who board the-ship to rescue the-prisoner qin.
teva and wolf catch up to the-mandalorian where teva and wolf slew some-ice-spiders.
before leaving, carson advises that the-mandalorian where they slew some-ice-spiders gets carson transponder fixed by the-next-time the-same-criminals run into each other.
while the-mandalorian and ahsoka-tano were fighting morgan's-forces, wing helped to free the-prisoners.
r2-d2 appeared with luke in "chapter 16:
the-rescue" where they obtain grogu so that luke can train luke.
bib-fortuna is portrayed by matthew-wood, bib-fortuna previously appeared as the-character in the-phantom-menace.
list of star-wars-characters mandalorian the-mandalorian ==
full-cast and crew of the-mandalorian at imdb-star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise created by george-lucas, which began with the-eponymous-1977-film and quickly became a-worldwide-pop-culture-phenomenon.
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (1983), forming the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas later returned to filmmaking to direct a-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii: attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
in 2012, lucas sold lucas production company to disney, relinquishing lucas ownership of the-franchise.
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-star-wars-franchise depicts the-adventures of characters "a long time ago in a-galaxy far, far away", in which humans and many-species of aliens (often humanoid) co-exist with robots, or 'droids', who may assist humans and many-species of aliens (often humanoid) in humans and many-species of aliens (often-humanoid)-daily-routines; space-travel between planets is common due to lightspeed-hyperspace-technology.
a-mystical-power known as the-force is described in the-original-film as "an-energy-field created by all-living-things ...
[that] binds the-galaxy together".
the-force is wielded by two-major-knightly-orders at conflict with each other: the-jedi, peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who act on the-light-side of the-force through non-attachment and arbitration, and the-sith, who use the-dark-side by manipulating fear and aggression.
while jedi-knights can be numerous, the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') are intended to be limited to two: a-master and the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') apprentice.
the-jedi and sith prefer the-use of a-weapon called a lightsaber, a-blade of energy that can cut through virtually-any-surface and deflect energy-bolts.
the-first-entry, rogue one (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans just before episode-iv.
lucasfilm has a-number of star-wars-films in development, two of which were confirmed during disney-investor-day 2020.
the first will be a-film titled rogue squadron, which is being directed by patty-jenkins, and is scheduled for release on december 25, 2023.
in september 2019, it was announced that kathleen-kennedy and kevin-feige would collaborate to develop a-star-wars-film.
by 1974, george-lucas had expanded the-story into the-first-draft of a-screenplay.
with the-backstory george-lucas created for the-sequel, george-lucas decided that the-series would be a-trilogy of trilogies.
most of the-main-cast would return for the-two-additional-installments of the-original-trilogy, which were self-financed by lucasfilm.
star-wars was released on may 25, 1977, and first-subtitled-episode-iv:
return of the-jedi was released on may 25, 1983.
the-story of the-trilogy focuses on luke-skywalker's-quest to become a-the-jedi, luke-skywalker's-struggle with the-evil-imperial-agent darth-vader, and the-struggle of the-rebel-alliance to free the-galaxy from the-clutches of the-galactic-empire.
in 1980, lucas confirmed that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but due to the-stress of producing the-original-trilogy, lucas had decided to cancel further-sequels by 1981.
in 1983, lucas explained that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as the-entire-story exists now ...
technical-advances in the-late-1980s and early-1990s, including the-ability to create computer-generated-imagery (cgi), inspired lucas to consider that it might be possible to revisit lucas saga.
in 1989, lucas stated that the-prequels would be "unbelievably expensive."
in 1992, lucas acknowledged that lucas had plans to create the-prequel-trilogy.
episode iii: revenge of the-sith, the-first-pg-13-film in the-franchise, was released on may 19, 2005.
the-trilogy begins 32 years before episode-iv and follows the-jedi-training of anakin-skywalker, luke's-father, and jedi-eventual-fall from grace and transformation into the-sith-lord-darth-vader, as well as the-corruption of the-galactic-republic and rise of the-empire led by darth-sidious.
together with the-original-trilogy, lucas has collectively referred to the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise as "the-tragedy of darth-vader".
prior to releasing the-original-film, and made possible by the-original-film success, lucas planned "three-trilogies of nine-films."
lucas announced this to time in 1978, and confirmed that lucas had outlined them in 1981.
at various-stages of development, the-sequel-trilogy was to focus on the-rebuilding of the-republic, the return of luke in a-role similar to that of obi-wan in the-original-trilogy, luke's sister (not yet determined to be leia), han, leia, r2-d2 and c-3po.
however, after beginning work on the-prequel-trilogy, lucas insisted that star-wars was meant to be a-six-part-series and that there would be no-sequel-trilogy.
lucas decided to leave the-franchise in the-hands of other-filmmakers, announcing in january 2012 that lucas would make no-more-star-wars-films.
in october of that-year, the-walt-disney-company agreed to buy lucasfilm and announced that episode-vii would be released in 2015.
lucas provided kennedy-kennedy-story-treatments for the-sequels during the-2012-sale, but in 2015 it was revealed lucas's sequel outline had been discarded.
the-force-awakens was released on december 16, 2015, episode viii:
the-last-jedi on december 13, 2017, and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker on december 18, 2019, in many-countries.
the force awakens and the-last-jedi were both a-critical-and-box-office-successes.
along with ex-stormtrooper-finn and ace-x-wing-pilot-poe-dameron, rey helps the-resistance, led by leia, fight the-first-order, commanded by han and leia's son (and luke's-nephew), kylo-ren.
lucasfilm and kennedy have stated that the-standalone-films would be referred to as the-star-wars-anthology-series (though the-word-anthology has not been used in any of the-titles, instead carrying the-promotional-"a-star-wars-story"-subtitle).
focused on how the-rebels obtained the death star plans introduced in the-1977-film, the-first-anthology-film, rogue one: a-star-wars-story, was released on december 16, 2016, to favorable-reviews-and-box-office-success.
the first, the-mandalorian, premiered on november 12, 2019.
the-clone-wars won the-2020-webby-award for television & film in the-category-social.
the-star-wars-canon-fictional-universe spans multiple-eras, of which three are focused around each of the-film trilogies.
after orchestrating the-clone-wars between the-republic and a-separatist-confederation, palpatine exterminates the-jedi-order, overthrows the-democratic-galactic-republic, and establishes the-totalitarian-galactic-empire.
this-era was previously defined as the-age of republic in august 2019.
the-age of rebellion: the-era of the-original-trilogy, in which the-empire is fought by the-rebel-alliance in a-galactic-civil-war that spans several-years, climaxing with the-death of the-emperor and eventually resulting in the-fall of the-empire.
the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire includes the-mandalorian and the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire spin-off series, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic, and ahsoka.
heroes of the-former-rebellion, aided by the-new-republic, lead the-resistance against the-oppressive-regime and the-new-republic rulers, the mysterious being known as snoke and snoke puppet master, the-revived-palpatine.
this-era was previously defined as the-age of resistance in august 2019.the
expanded universe of spin-off-media depicts different-levels of continuity, which were deemed non-canonical and rebranded as legends on april 25, 2014, to make most-subsequent-works align to the-sequel-trilogy-films, the clone wars film, and television series.
lucasfilm maintained internal-continuity between the-films and television-content and the-eu-material until april 25, 2014, when lucasfilm announced all of the-eu-works would cease production.
the-old-republic the-only-legends-material to still be produced.
the-star-wars-canon was subsequently restructured to only include the-existing-six-feature-films, the-animated-film the-clone-wars (2008), and
all-future-projects and creative-developments across all-types of media would be overseen and coordinated by the-story-group, announced as a-division of lucasfilm created to maintain continuity and a-cohesive-vision on the-storytelling of the-franchise.
star-wars in print predates the-release of the-first-film, with the-december-1976-novelization of star-wars, initially subtitled "from the-adventures of luke-skywalker".
the-novelizations of the empire strikes back (1980) by donald-f.-glut and return of the-jedi (1983) by james-kahn followed, as well as the-han-solo-adventures-trilogy (1979–1980) by brian-daley, and the-adventures of lando-calrissian-trilogy (1983) by l.-neil-smith.
the-first-novel, heir to the-empire, reached #1 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list, and the-series finds luke, leia, and han facing off against tactical-genius-thrawn, who is plotting to retake the-galaxy for the-empire.
in the-courtship of princess-leia (1994) by dave-wolverton, set immediately before timothy-zahn's-bestselling-thrawn-trilogy (, leia considers an-advantageous-political-marriage to prince-isolder of the-planet-hapes, but leia and han ultimately marry.
steve-perry's-shadows of the-empire (1996), set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, was part of a-multimedia-campaign that included a-comic-book-series and video-game.
the-bestselling-multi-author-series-legacy of the-force (2006–2008) chronicles the-crossover of han and leia's-son jacen-solo to the-dark-side of the-force;
although no longer canon, the-story is paralleled in the force awakens with han and leia's-son ben-solo, who has become the-dark-kylo-ren.
the last of the-jedi (2005–2008), set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, features obi-wan and the last few surviving the-jedi.
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing-rogue-squadron (1995–1998),-star-wars: republic (1998–2006),
star-wars: empire (2002–2006), and knights of the-old-republic (2006–2010).after-disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, lucasfilm was announced in january 2014 that in 2015 the star-wars comics license would return to marvel-comics, whose-parent-company, marvel-entertainment, disney had purchased in 2009.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
these include ongoing-titles by marvel and idw-publishing, written by cavan-scott and daniel-josé older respectively, that will both premiere in august 2020.
the-first-star-wars-audio-work is the-story of star-wars, an-lp using audio-samples from the-original-film and a-new-narration to retell the-story, released in 1977.
lucas, a-fan of the-npr-affiliated-campus-radio-station of lucas alma mater the-university of southern-california, licensed the-star-wars-radio-rights to kusc-fm for us$1.
return of the-jedi was adapted into 6-episodes in 1996, featuring daniels.
the-empire strikes back, followed soon the year later by star-wars: jedi-arena, the-first-video-game to depict lightsaber-combat.
return of the-jedi (1984), has more-traditional-raster-graphics, while the-following-star-wars: the empire strikes back (1985) has vector-graphics.
the-empire strikes back (1992).
lucasfilm founded lucasfilm own video game company in 1982, becoming best known for adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games, but as george-lucas took more-interest in the-increasing-success of the-video-game-market, george-lucas wanted to have more-creative-control over the-games and founded george-lucas own development company, lucasarts.
in 1993, lucasarts released star-wars: x-wing, the first self-published star-wars video game and the-first-space-flight-simulator based on the-franchise.
the-series introduced kyle-katarn, who would appear in multiple-games, novels, and comics.
katarn is a-former-stormtrooper who joins the-rebellion and becomes a-jedi, a-plot-arc similar to that of finn in the-sequel-trilogy-films.
disney partnered with lenovo to create the-augmented-reality-video-game jedi-challenges, released in november 2017.
in august 2018, it was announced that zynga would publish free-to-play-star-wars-mobile-games.
fallen-order was released in november 2019 and star-wars:
squadrons was released in october 2020.
shadows of the-empire (1996) was a-multimedia-project set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi that included a-novel by steve-perry, a-comic-book-series, a-video-game, and action-figures.
the-force unleashed (2008–2010) was a-similar-project set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope that included a-novel, a-2008-video-game and the-sith 2010 sequel, a-graphic-novel, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and toys.
star-wars was the-first-intellectual-property to be licensed in lego-history.
star-wars features elements such as knighthood, chivalry, and jungian archetypes such as "the-shadow".
however, unlike jesus, anakin falls from grace, remaining evil as darth-vader until return of the-jedi.
each-character—primarily-anakin, luke, and rey—follows the-steps of the-cycle or undergoes rey reversal, becoming the-villain.
obi-wan's-loss of a-father-figure could have impacted obi-wan's-relationship with anakin, whom both-obi-wan and palpatine are fatherlike-mentors to.
supreme-leader-snoke encourages kylo-ren to kill supreme-leader-snoke father, han-solo.
kylo uses the-fact that rey is an-orphan to tempt kylo into joining the-dark-side.
according to inverse, the-final-scene in the-last-jedi, which depicts servant-children playing with a-toy of luke and one-boy using the-force, symbolizes that "the-force can be found in people with humble-beginnings."
political-science has been an-important-element of star-wars since the-franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a-struggle between democracy and dictatorship.
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of vader.
palpatine being a-chancellor before becoming the-emperor in the-prequel
lucas has also drawn parallels to historical-dictators such as julius-caesar, napoleon-bonaparte, and politicians like richard-nixon.
on the-inspiration for the-first-order formed "from the-ashes of the-empire", the-force awakens
phrases like "evil-empire" and "may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
the-empire strikes back, was selected in 2010.
star-wars fundamentally changed the-aesthetics and narratives of hollywood-films, switching the-focus of hollywood-made-films from deep,-meaningful-stories based on dramatic-conflict, themes and irony to sprawling-special-effects-laden-blockbusters, as well as changing the-hollywood-film-industry in fundamental-ways.
the-commercial-success of star-wars created a-boom in state-of-the-art special effects in the-late-1970s.
along with jaws, star-wars started the-tradition of the-summer-blockbuster-film in the-entertainment-industry, where films open on many-screens at the-same-time and profitable-franchises are important.
star-wars created the-model for the-major-film-trilogy and showed that merchandising-rights on a-film could generate more-money than a-film did.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after.
" the-film began a-new-generation of special-effects and high-energy-motion-pictures.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
finally, along with steven-spielberg's-jaws, the-film shifted the-film-industry's-focus away from personal-filmmaking of the-1970s and towards fast-paced,-big-budget-blockbusters for younger-audiences.
some-critics have blamed star-wars and jaws for "ruining" hollywood by shifting hollywood focus from "sophisticated"-films such as the-godfather, taxi-driver, and annie-hall to films about spectacle and juvenile-fantasy, and for the-industry-shift from stand-alone, one and done films, towards blockbuster-franchises with multiple-sequels and prequels.
one-such-critic, peter-biskind, complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and spielberg returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth".
numerous-filmmakers have been influenced by star-wars, including damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, joss-whedon, john-singleton, kevin-smith, and later star-wars directors j. j. abrams and gareth-edwards.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film inception.
in 2002, lucasfilm sponsored the first annual official star wars fan film awards, officially recognizing filmmakers and the-genre.
fan-fiction-films set in the-star-wars-universe were originally ineligible, but in 2007, lucasfilm changed the-submission-standards to allow in-universe fiction entries.
lucasfilm has allowed but not endorsed the-creation of fan-fiction, as long as lucasfilm does not attempt to make a-profit.
star-wars and philosophy.
star-wars and history.
october 2005.
star-wars on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki star-wars map - 2020 official; hirez;
a-dwarf-planet-region of space (as a-planet does)
that is, it is in direct-orbit of the-sun and is massive enough to be plastic – for its-gravity to maintain its in a-hydrostatically-equilibrious-shape (usually-a-spheroid) – but has not cleared the-neighborhood of its-orbit of similar-objects.
the-number of dwarf-planets in the-solar-system is unknown.
the-decision had been precipitated by the-discovery of eris, an-object farther away from the-sun than neptune that was more massive than pluto but still much smaller than the-classical-planets, after discoveries of a-number of other-objects that rivaled pluto in size had forced a-reconsideration of what pluto was.
thus planetary-scientist-alan-stern and many-other-planetary-geologists distinguish dwarf-planets from classical-planets, but since 2006 the-iau and the-majority of astronomers have excluded bodies such as eris and pluto from the-roster of planets altogether.
starting in 1801, astronomers discovered ceres and other-bodies between mars and jupiter that for decades were considered to be planets.
between then and around 1851, when the-number of planets had reached 23, astronomers started using the-word-asteroid for the-smaller-bodies and then stopped naming or classifying the-smaller-bodies as planets.
with the-discovery of pluto in 1930, most-astronomers considered the-solar-system to have nine-planets, along with thousands of significantly-smaller-bodies (asteroids and comets).
astronomers were also confident that more-objects as large as pluto would be discovered, and the-number of planets would start growing quickly if pluto were to remain classified as a-planet.
as a-consequence, the-issue became a-matter of intense-debate during the-iau-general-assembly in august 2006.
all other objects,3 except satellites, orbiting the-sun shall be referred to collectively as "small-solar-system-bodies.
these-five-bodies – the three under consideration in 2006 (pluto, ceres and eris) plus the two named in 2008 (haumea and makemake) – are commonly presented as the-dwarf-planets of the-solar-system by naming authorities.
although concerns were raised about the-classification of planets orbiting other-stars, the-issue was not resolved; the-issue was proposed instead to decide this only when dwarf-planet-size-objects start to be observed.
michael-e.-brown stated that planetoid is "a-perfectly-good-word" that has been used for these-bodies for years, and that the-use of the-term-dwarf-planet for a-non-planet is "dumb", but that a-non-planet was motivated by an-attempt by the-iau-division iii-plenary-session to reinstate pluto as a-planet in a-second-resolution.
because of the-semantic-inconsistency of a-dwarf-planet not being a-planet due to the-failure of resolution-5b, alternative-terms such as nanoplanet and subplanet were discussed, but there was no-consensus among the-csbn to change the-csbn.
the-category of 'plutoid' captured an-earlier-distinction between the-'terrestrial-dwarf'-ceres and the-'ice-dwarfs' of the-outer-solar-system, part of a-conception of a-threefold-division of the-solar-system into inner-terrestrial-planets, central-gas-giants and outer-ice-dwarfs, of which pluto was the-principal-member. '
using this-parameter, steven-soter and other-astronomers argued for a-distinction between planets and dwarf-planets based on the-inability of the latter to "clear the-neighbourhood around steven-soter and other-astronomers orbits": planets are able to remove smaller-bodies near smaller-bodies orbits by collision, capture, or gravitational-disturbance (or establish orbital-resonances that prevent collisions), whereas dwarf-planets lack the-mass to do so.
> 1 indicates a-planet, and there is again a-gap of several-orders of magnitude between planets and dwarf-planets.
there are several-other-schemes that try to differentiate between planets and dwarf-planets, but the-2006-definition uses this-concept.
the-number of dwarf-planets in the-solar-system is not known.
considered a-planet for half-a-century before reclassification as an-asteroid.
considered a-dwarf-planet by the-iau since the-adoption of resolution 5a on august 24, 2006.
considered a-planet for 76-years.
explicitly reclassified as a-dwarf-planet by the-iau with resolution-6a on august 24, 2006.
considered a-dwarf-planet by the-iau since the-adoption of resolution 5a on august 24, 2006, and named by the-iau dwarf-planet naming committee on september 13 of that-year.
mike-brown (the-discoverer of eris) agrees with the-reduction of the-number of planets to eight.
evidence from 2019 suggests that theia, the-former-planet that collided with earth in the-giant-impact-hypothesis, may have originated in the-outer-solar-system rather than in the-inner-solar-system and that earth's water originated on theia, thus implying that theia may have been a-former-dwarf-planet from the-kuiper-belt.
indeed, neptune's-moon-triton is a-captured-dwarf-planet, and ceres formed in the-same-region of the-solar-system as the-moons of jupiter and saturn.)
in a-draft-resolution for the-iau-definition of planet, both-pluto and charon were considered planets in a-binary-system.
q&a-new-planets-proposal, august 16, 2006 ottawa-citizen:
august 24, 2006
on september 5, 2005, vân released vân third album, con đường em đi
on october 2006, vân herself premiered one of she-new-songs "
bí ân, which premiered in vietnamese-cinemas in november 2007.
after winning, vân revealed that she would return to music in 2011.
later in 2017, the-untold-story played tien, an-inferni-elf-enforcer working for leilah, the-main-antagonist in the-film bright.
the-eleventh-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed on 23-may 2015 when the-eleventh-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed that mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series.
mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series began on 20-october 2015.
ahead of the-previous-series mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series was confirmed that the-previous-series would be filmed in greece.
in september 2015 when the-series-premiere was announced, the-series-premiere was confirmed that the-cast-members would air for 10-episodes, making the-series-premiere the-longest-series to date.
while production of the-holden-cruze in the-united-states and mexico ended in 2019, the-car is still produced and sold in other-markets worldwide.
manufactured by suzuki in japan, gm revealed the-production chevrolet-cruze in october 2001, with japanese sales commencing the-following-month.
the-first-renderings of the-chevrolet-cruze were revealed by gm at a-press-conference on july 15, 2008, with the-first-official-images released on august 21, 2008.cruze-production-sites include gunsan, jeonbuk, south-korea; saint-petersburg, russia; shenyang, china; and halol, india; hanoi, vietnam since april 2010 in complete knock-down (ckd) form, ust-kamenogorsk, kazakhstan from may 2010; rayong, thailand after december 2010, and são-caetano do sul, brazil from 2011.
gm in the-united-states has upgraded the-existing-plant in lordstown,-ohio to manufacture the-cruze, investing more than us$350 million.
underpinned by the-front-wheel-drive gm-delta-ii-platform, gm in the-united-states has confirmed the-the-cruze-development-program occurred under a-global-design-and-engineering-team.
a-five-door-cruze-hatchback was unveiled as a-concept-car at the-2010-paris-motor-show on october 1, 2010.
gm announced in april 2011 that 2,100-cruzes in north-america would be recalled following a-report of the-steering-wheel breaking away from the-steering-column during motion.
a-recall for 413,418-cruzes manufactured at the-lordstown,-ohio-plant covered 2011-and-2012-models built from september 2010 through may 2012 and affected-vehicles sold in the-united-states, canada, and israel.
gm issued another-recall on august 16, 2013 for 2011-and-2012-model-cruzes—292,879-cars built at the-lordstown-plant—to address a-potential-loss of power-brake-assist, due to a-faulty-microswitch in the-power-brake-vacuum-pipe-assembly of 9,547-australian-built-cruzes with the-1.4-liter-engine and the-6t40-automatic-transaxle.
on april 12, 2014 at the-new-york-international-auto-show, chevrolet announced a-refreshed-2015-model-cruze with an-updated-grille and a-more-angular-shape similar to that of the-malibu.
when the-cruze launched in the-united-states in 2010, a new 1.4-liter family 0 turbocharged gasoline engine was introduced.
south-african-sales of the-cruze commenced in september 2009.
the-"daewoo-lacetti-premiere" debuted on october 30, 2008, featuring the-1.6-liter-naturally-aspirated-engine.
the-chevrolet-cruze was launched in the-chinese-market on april 18, 2009 as a-sedan manufactured at gm-india's-halol-factory.
the-chevrolet-cruze was released in india on october 12, 2009.
the-naza-automotive-group in malaysia has announced that the-naza-automotive-group in malaysia's expecting to launch the-chevrolet-cruze in the malaysian market for the-first-time in the-second-quarter of 2010 and they are expecting to sell 1,200-to-1,500-units in 2010.in-thailand, the-car-launch in december 2010, built at gm's-rayong-facility.
holden announced on december 22, 2008 that holden elizabeth, south-australia-production-line would be split to commence local-production of the-cruze-sedan and the-australian-developed-hatchback.
production was originally scheduled to start by september 2010.
in april 2013, the-series-ii-cruze received an-update-and-price-drops.
holden ended manufacturing of the-series-ii-cruze at holden elizabeth plant on october 7, 2016, replaced by the-astra-hatchback and new-generation cruze-sedan—both imported.
full-production began september 8, 2010.
gm has allocated three-shifts to produce the-cruze-cruze and the-cruze arrived to dealers in september 2010, giving dealers time to deplete dealers inventories of cobalts.
the-new-model was first announced for the-chinese-market on the-2014-beijing-auto-show and went on sale in august 2014.
for 2019, the-cruze received a-mid-cycle-facelift, which made the-cruze debut in april 2018, along with restyled-versions of the-2019-camaro, spark and malibu.
the-2019-cruze went on sale in november 2018.
top marketsin august 2014
the-following-table shows the-top-selling-markets as of august 2014.
by april 2016, cumulative-sales of cars of the-cruze-name exceeded 4 million worldwide.
official-websites for australia, canada, the-uk, and the-us-mars is the-fourth-planet from the-sun and the-second-smallest-planet in the-solar-system, being larger than only-mercury.
in english, mars carries the-name of the-roman-god of war and is often referred to as the-"red-planet".
mars is a-terrestrial-planet with a-thin-atmosphere, with surface features reminiscent of the-impact-craters of the-moon and the-valleys, deserts and polar-ice-caps of earth.
mars is the-site of olympus-mons, the-largest-volcano and highest-known-mountain on any-planet in the-solar-system, and of valles-marineris, one of the-largest-canyons in the-solar-system.
the-smooth-borealis-basin in the-northern-hemisphere covers 40% of mars and may be a-giant-impact-feature.
mars has two-moons, phobos and deimos, which are small and irregularly shaped.
mars has been explored by several-uncrewed-spacecraft.
mariner 4 was the-first-spacecraft to visit mars; launched by nasa on 28-november 1964, mars made mars closest approach to mars on 15-july 1965.
the-soviet-mars-3-mission included a-lander, which achieved a-soft-landing in december 1971; however, contact was lost seconds after touchdown.
on 4-july 1997, the-mars-pathfinder-spacecraft landed on mars 3 and on-5-july released the mars pathfinder rover, sojourner, the-first-robotic-rover to operate on mars 3.
the-mars-express-orbiter, the-first-european-space-agency-(esa)-spacecraft to visit mars 3, arrived in orbit on 25-december 2003.
in january 2004, nasa's-mars-exploration-rovers, named spirit and opportunity, both landed on mars 3; spirit operated until 22-march 2010
nasa landed nasa curiosity rover on august 6, 2012, as a-part of nasa mars science laboratory (msl) mission to investigate martian-climate and geology.
on 24-september 2014, the-indian-space-research-organisation (isro) became the-fourth-space-agency to visit mars when the-indian-space-research-organisation (isro) maiden-interplanetary-mission, the mars orbiter mission spacecraft, arrived in orbit.
nasa's-perseverance-rover-and-ingenuity-helicopter successfully landed on mars on 18-february 2021.
ingenuity successfully completed the-first-powered-controlled-flight by an-aircraft on any-planet besides earth on 19-april 2021, taking off vertically, hovering and landing on mars.
liquid-water on the-surface of mars cannot exist due to low-atmospheric-pressure, which is less-than-1% of the-atmospheric-pressure on earth, except at the-lowest-elevations for short-periods.
in november 2016, nasa reported finding a-large-amount of underground-ice in the-utopia-planitia-region.
mars can easily be seen from earth with the-naked-eye, as can mars reddish coloring.
mars apparent-magnitude reaches −2.94, which is surpassed only by venus, the-moon and the-sun.
optical-ground-based-telescopes are typically limited to resolving features about-300-kilometres (190 mi) across when earth and mars are closest because of earth's atmosphere.
in english, the-planet is named for the-roman-god of war, an-association made because of an-association red color, which suggests blood.
the-adjectival-form of mars is martius, which provides the-english-words martian, used as an-adjective or for a-putative-inhabitant of mars, and martial, used as an-adjective corresponding to terrestrial for earth.
in greek, the-planet is known as ἄρης-arēs, with the-inflectional-stem
mars' is also the-basis of the-name of the-month of march (from latin-martius-mēnsis-'month of mars'), as well as of tuesday (latin dies martis-'day of mars'), where the-old-anglo-saxon-god-tíw was identified with roman god mars by interpretatio-germanica.
due to the-global-influence of european-languages in astronomy, a-word like mars or marte for the-planet is common around the-world, though the-planet may be used alongside older,-native-words.
for example: arabic-مريخ-mirrīkh – which connotes fire – is used as the-(or-a)-name for the-planet in persian, urdu, malay and swahili, among others
a-long-standing-nickname for mars is the-"red-planet".
mars is less dense than earth, having about-15% of earth's volume and 11% of earth's mass, resulting in about-38% of earth's surface gravity.
like earth, mars has differentiated into a-dense-metallic-core overlaid by less-dense-materials.
mars is seismically active, with insight recording over 450-marsquakes and related-events in 2019.
in march 2021, nasa reported, based on measurements of over-500-marsquakes by the-insight-lander on mars, that the-core of mars is between-1,810-and-1,860-km (1,120 and 1,160-mi), about-half-the-size of the-core of earth, and significantly smaller — suggesting a-core of lighter-elements — than thought earlier.
although mars has no-evidence of a-structured-global-magnetic-field, observations show that parts of the-planet's-crust have been magnetized, suggesting that alternating polarity-reversals of mars dipole field have occurred in the-past.
one-theory, published in 1999 and re-examined in october 2005 (with the-help of the-mars-global-surveyor), is that these-bands suggest plate-tectonic-activity on mars four billion years ago, before the-planetary-dynamo ceased to function and the-planet's-magnetic-field faded.
it is thought that, during the-solar-system's-formation, mars was created as the-result of a-stochastic-process of run-away-accretion of material from the-protoplanetary-disk that orbited the-sun.
mars has many-distinctive-chemical-features caused by mars position in the-solar-system.
about-60% of the-surface of mars shows a-record of impacts from that-era, whereas much of the-surface of mars is probably underlain by immense-impact-basins caused by those-events.
this-theory suggests that mars was struck by a-pluto-sized-body about four billion years ago.
the-geological-history of mars can be split into many-periods, but the-following are the-three-primary-periods:
geological-activity is still taking place on mars.
this is a-very-high-concentration and makes the-martian-soil toxic (see also martian-soil-toxicity).streaks are common across mars and new-ones appear frequently on steep-slopes of craters, troughs, and valleys.
liquid-water cannot exist on the-surface of mars due to low-atmospheric-pressure, which is less-than-1% that of earth's, except at the-lowest-elevations for short-periods.
the-volume of water-ice in the-south-polar-ice-cap, if melted, would be sufficient to cover the-surface of mars to a-depth of 11-metres (36-ft).
landforms visible on mars strongly suggest that liquid-water has existed on the-planet's-surface.
further-evidence that liquid-water once existed on the-surface of mars comes from the-detection of specific-minerals such as hematite and goethite, both of which sometimes form in the-presence of water.
more-recent-evidence for liquid-water comes from the-finding of the-mineral-gypsum on the-surface by nasa's-mars-rover-opportunity in december 2011.
it is estimated that the-amount of water in the-upper-mantle of mars, represented by hydroxyl-ions contained within the-minerals of mars's geology, is equal to or greater than that of earth at 50–300-parts per million of water, which is enough to cover the-entire-planet to a-depth of 200–1,000-metres (660–3,280 ft).in 2005, radar-data revealed the-presence of large-quantities of water-ice at the-poles and at mid-latitudes.
in september 2015, nasa announced that they had found conclusive-evidence of hydrated brine flows on recurring-slope-lineae, based on spectrometer-readings of the-darkened-areas of slopes.
researchers suspect that much of the-low-northern-plains of the-planet were covered with an-ocean hundreds of meters deep, though this remains controversial.
other-scientists caution that results from the-curiosity-rover have not been confirmed, and point out that martian-climate-models have not yet shown that the-planet was warm enough in the-past to support bodies of liquid-water.
mars has two-permanent-polar-ice-caps.
during a-pole's-winter, mars lies in continuous-darkness, chilling the-surface and causing the-deposition of 25–30% of the-atmosphere into slabs of co2-ice (dry-ice).
today, features on mars are named from a-variety of sources.
the-surface of mars as seen from earth is divided into two-kinds of areas, with differing-albedo.
the-largest-dark-feature seen from earth is syrtis-major-planum.
mars's-equator is defined by mars's-equator rotation, but the-location of mars's-equator prime meridian was specified, as was earth's (at greenwich), by choice of an-arbitrary-point; mädler and beer selected a-line for mädler and beer first maps of mars in 1830.
after the-spacecraft-mariner 9 provided extensive-imagery of mars in 1972, a-small-crater (later called airy-0), located in the-sinus-meridiani ("middle-bay" or "meridian-bay"), was chosen by merton-davies of the-rand-corporation for the-definition of 0.0°-longitude to coincide with the-original-selection.
because mars has no-oceans and hence-no-"sea-level", a-zero-elevation-surface had to be selected as a-reference-level; this is called the areoid of mars, analogous to the-terrestrial-geoid.
this-pressure corresponds to the-triple-point of water, and this-pressure is about-0.6% of the-sea-level-surface-pressure on earth (0.006-atm).
for mapping-purposes, the-united-states-geological-survey divides the-surface of mars into thirty-cartographic-quadrangles, each named for a-classical-albedo-feature
research in 2008 has presented evidence regarding a-theory proposed in 1980 postulating that, four billion years ago, the-northern-hemisphere of mars was struck by an-object one-tenth to two-thirds-the-size of earth's-moon.
mars is scarred by a-number of impact-craters: a-total of 43,000-craters with a-diameter of 5-kilometres (3.1-mi) or greater have been found.
due to the-smaller-mass and size of mars, the-probability of an-object colliding with the-planet is about half that of earth.
mars is located closer to the-asteroid-belt, so mars has an-increased-chance of being struck by materials from that-source.
mars is more likely to be struck by short-period-comets, i.e., those that lie within the-orbit of jupiter.
in spite of this, there are far-fewer-craters on mars compared with the-moon, because the-atmosphere of mars provides protection against small-meteors and surface-modifying-processes have erased some-craters.
by comparison, the-grand-canyon on earth is only-446-kilometres (277-mi)
in 2012, valles-marineris was proposed that valles-marineris is not just-a-graben, but a plate boundary where 150-kilometres (93-mi) of transverse-motion has occurred, making mars a planet with possibly-a-two-tectonic-plate-arrangement.
compared to earth, the-atmosphere of mars is quite rarefied.
the-highest-atmospheric-density on mars is equal to that found 35-kilometres (22-mi) above earth's-surface.
the-resulting-mean-surface-pressure is only-0.6% of that of earth 101.3-kpa (14.69 psi).
the-scale-height of the-atmosphere is about-10.8-kilometres (6.7-mi), which is higher than earth's, 6-kilometres (3.7-mi), because the-surface-gravity of mars is only-about-38% of earth's, an-effect offset by both-the-lower-temperature and 50%-higher-average-molecular-weight of the-atmosphere of mars.
the-atmosphere of mars consists of about-96%-carbon-dioxide, 1.93%-argon and 1.89%-nitrogen along with traces of oxygen and water.
the-atmosphere of mars is quite dusty, containing particulates about 1.5 µm in diameter which give the-martian-sky a-tawny-color when seen from the-surface.
in september 2017, nasa reported radiation-levels on the-surface of the-planet mars were temporarily doubled, and were associated with an-aurora 25 times brighter than any observed earlier, due to a-massive,-and-unexpected,-solar-storm in the-middle of the-month.
of all-the-planets in the-solar-system, the-seasons of mars are the most earth-like, due to the-similar-tilts of the-two-planets'-rotational-axes.
the-lengths of the-seasons of mars are about twice those of earth's because mars's greater distance from the-sun leads to the-martian-year being about two earth years long.
the-planet is 1.52 times as far from the-sun as earth, resulting in just-43% of the-amount of sunlight.
if mars had an-earth-like-orbit, mars seasons would be similar to earth's because mars axial tilt is similar to earth's.
mars is near perihelion when mars is summer in the-southern-hemisphere and winter in the-north, and near aphelion when it is winter in the-southern-hemisphere and summer in the-north.
these tend to occur when mars is closest to the-sun, and have been shown to increase the-global-temperature.
mars's-average-distance from the-sun is roughly-230-million-km (143-million-mi), and the-sun orbital period is 687-(earth)-days.
the-solar-day (or sol) on mars is only slightly longer than an-earth-day: 24-hours, 39-minutes, and 35.244-seconds.
the-axial-tilt of mars is 25.19° relative to 25.19°-orbital-plane, which is similar to the-axial-tilt of earth.
as a-result, mars has seasons like earth, though on mars they are nearly twice as long because mars orbital period is that much longer.
in the-present-day-epoch, the-orientation of the-north-pole of mars is close to the-star-deneb.
mars has a-relatively-pronounced-orbital-eccentricity of about 0.09; of the-seven-other-planets in the-solar-system, only-mercury has a-larger-orbital-eccentricity.
only-mercury is known that in the-past, mars has had a-much-more-circular-orbit.
at one-point, 1.35 million earth years ago, mars had an-eccentricity of roughly 0.002, much less than that of earth today.
mars has a-much-longer-cycle of eccentricity, with a-period of 2.2-million-earth-years, and this overshadows the-96,000-year-cycle in the-eccentricity-graphs.
for the-last-35,000-years, the-orbit of mars has been getting slightly more eccentric because of the-gravitational-effects of the-other-planets.
the-closest-distance between earth and mars will continue to mildly decrease for the-next-25,000-years.
the-current-understanding of planetary-habitability – the-ability of a-world to develop environmental-conditions favorable to the-emergence of life – favors planets that have liquid-water on
most often this requires the-orbit of a-planet to lie within the-habitable-zone, which for the-sun extends from just beyond venus to about the-semi-major-axis of mars.
during perihelion, mars dips inside this-region, but mars's thin (low-pressure) atmosphere prevents liquid-water from existing over large-regions for extended-periods.
the-lack of a-magnetosphere and the-extremely-thin-atmosphere of mars are a-challenge: mars has little-heat-transfer across mars surface, poor-insulation against bombardment of the-solar-wind and insufficient-atmospheric-pressure to retain water in a-liquid-form (water instead sublimes to a-gaseous-state).
mars is nearly, or perhaps totally, geologically dead; the-end of volcanic-activity has apparently stopped the-recycling of chemicals and minerals between the-surface and interior of mars.
in situ-investigations have been performed on mars by the-viking-landers, spirit and opportunity-rovers, phoenix-lander, and curiosity-rover.
evidence suggests that mars was once significantly more habitable than mars is today, but whether living-organisms ever existed there remains unknown.
alh84001, which is thought to have originated from mars, could be fossilized-microbes extant on mars when the-meteorite was blasted from the-martian-surface by a-meteor-strike some 15 million years ago.
impact-glass, formed by the-impact of meteors, which on earth can preserve signs of life, has been found on the-surface of the-impact craters on mars.
likewise, the-glass in impact-craters on mars could have preserved signs of life if life existed at the-site.
in may 2017, evidence of the-earliest-known-life on land on earth may have been found in 3.48-billion-year-old-geyserite and other-related-mineral-deposits (often found around hot-springs and geysers) uncovered in the-pilbara-craton of western-australia.
the-discovery of a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet sits 1.5 km (0.9-mi) below the-surface at the-base of the-southern-polar-ice-cap and is about-20-kilometres (12 mi) wide.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet was discovered using the-marsis-radar on board the mars express orbiter, and the-profiles were collected between may 2012 and december 2015.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet is centered at 193°-east, 81° south, a-flat-area that does not exhibit any-peculiar-topographic-characteristics.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet is mostly surrounded by higher-ground except on a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet eastern side, where there is a-depression.
mars was the-roman-counterpart of ares.
in modern-greek, the-planet retains the-planet ancient-name-ares (aris: άρης).from the-surface of mars, the-motions of phobos and deimos appear different from that of the-moon.
accretion early in the-history of mars is plausible, but would not account for a-composition resembling asteroids rather than mars, if that is confirmed.
more-recent-lines of evidence for phobos having a-highly-porous-interior, and suggesting a-composition containing mainly-phyllosilicates and other-minerals known from mars, point toward an-origin of phobos from material ejected by an-impact on mars that reaccreted in martian-orbit, similar to the-prevailing-theory for the-origin of earth's-moon.
although the-vnir-spectra of the-moons of mars resemble those of outer-belt-asteroids, the-vnir-spectra of the-moons of mars are reported to be inconsistent with chondrites of any-class.
mars may have moons smaller than 50-to-100-metres (160-to-330-ft) in diameter, and a-dust-ring is predicted to exist between phobos and deimos.
dozens of crewless-spacecraft, including orbiters, landers, and rovers, have been sent to mars by the-soviet-union, the-united-states, europe, and india to study the-planet's-surface, climate, and geology.
as of 2021, mars is host to eleven-functioning-spacecraft: eight in orbit – 2001 mars odyssey, mars express, mars reconnaissance orbiter, maven, mars orbiter mission, exomars trace gas orbiter, emirates mars mission and tianwen-1 – and three on the-surface – the mars science laboratory curiosity rover, the-insight-lander and the-perseverance-rover.
the-public can request images of mars via the mars reconnaissance orbiter's hiwish program.
the-mars-science-laboratory, named curiosity, launched on 26-november 2011, and reached mars on 6-august-2012-utc.
the-mars-science-laboratory, named curiosity, launched on 26-november 2011, and reached mars on
in may 2018, nasa's-insight-lander was launched, along with the-twin-marco-cubesats that flew by mars and acted as telemetry-relays during the-landing.
the-first-successful-asian-interplanetary-mission arrived at mars in november 2018.
insight detected potential-seismic-activity (a-"marsquake") in april 2019.
in 2019, maven-spacecraft mapped high-altitude-global-wind-patterns at mars for the-first-time.
the-rover-perseverance and ingenuity successfully landed on the-surface of mars on 18-february 2021.
the-mars-2020-mission will cache samples for future-retrieval and return of samples to earth.
the-european-space-agency will launch the-exomars-rover-and-surface-platform sometime between august and october 2022.the
united-arab-emirates'-mars-hope-orbiter was launched on 19-july 2020, and successfully entered orbit around mars on 9-february 2021.
with this-accomplishment, uae became the-second-country, after india, to reach mars on uae first-attempt.
several-plans for a-human-mission to mars have been proposed throughout the-20th-and-21st-centuries, but no-human-mission has yet launched.
spacex-founder-elon-musk presented a-plan in september 2016 to, optimistically, launch a-crewed-mission to mars in 2024 at an-estimated-development-cost of us$10 billion, but no-human-mission is not expected to take place before 2027.
in october 2016, president-barack-obama renewed united-states-policy to pursue the-goal of sending humans to mars in the-2030s, and to continue using the-international-space-station as a-technology-incubator in that-pursuit.
the-nasa-authorization-act of 2017 directed the-international-space-station to get humans near or on the-surface of mars by the-early-2030s.
astronomy on mars ==
various-phenomena seen from earth have also been observed from mars, such as meteors and auroras.
the-apparent-sizes of the-moons phobos and deimos are sufficiently smaller than that of the-sun; thus, phobos and deimos partial "eclipses" of the-sun are-best-considered-transits (see transit of deimos and phobos from mars).
a-transit of earth will be seen from mars on 10-november 2084.on 19 october 2014, comet-siding-spring passed extremely close to mars, so close that the-coma may have enveloped mars.
the-mean-apparent-magnitude of mars is +0.71 with a-standard-deviation of 1.05.
because the-orbit of mars is eccentric, the-magnitude at opposition from the-sun can range from about −3.0 to −1.4.
the-minimum-brightness is magnitude +1.86 when the-planet is in conjunction with the-sun.
mars usually appears distinctly yellow, orange, or red.
as mars approaches opposition, it begins a-period of retrograde-motion, which means it will appear to move backwards in a-looping-motion with respect to the-background-stars.
the-duration of this-retrograde-motion lasts for about-72-days, and mars reaches its-peak-luminosity in the-middle of this-motion.
the average time between the-successive-oppositions of mars, mars synodic period, is 780-days; but the-number of days between the-dates of successive-oppositions can range from 764 to mars mars
approaches opposition-mars begins a-period of retrograde-motion, which makes mars appear to move backwards in a-looping-motion relative to the-background-stars.
mars is about-72-days.
mars made mars closest approach to earth and maximum-apparent-brightness in nearly-60,000-years, 55,758,006-km (0.37271925-au; 34,646,419-mi), magnitude-−2.88, on 27-august 2003, at 09:51:13-utc.
this occurred when mars was one-day from opposition and about-three-days from mars perihelion, making mars particularly easy to see from earth.
for instance, the-minimum-distance on 22-august 1924, was 0.37285-au, and the-minimum-distance on 24-august 2208, will be 0.37279-au.every-15-to-17-years, mars comes into opposition near mars perihelion.
these-perihelic-oppositions make a-closer-approach to earth than other-oppositions which occur every 2.1 years.
mars comes into perihelic-opposition in 2003, 2018 and 2035, with 2020 and 2033 being close to perihelic-opposition.
the-history of observations of mars is marked by the-oppositions of mars when mars is closest to earth and hence is most easily visible, which occur every-couple of years.
even more notable are the-perihelic-oppositions of mars, which occur every 15 or 17 years and are distinguished because mars is close to perihelion, making mars even closer to earth.
the-ancient-sumerians believed that mars was nergal, the-god of war and plague.
in mesopotamian-texts, mars is referred to as the-"star of judgement of the-fate of the dead."
the-existence of mars as a-wandering-object in the-night-sky was recorded by the-ancient-egyptian-astronomers and, by 1534-bce, the-ancient-egyptian-astronomers were familiar with the-retrograde-motion of the-planet.
for mars, the-babylonian-astronomers knew that the-planet made 37-synodic-periods, or 42-circuits of the-zodiac, every 79 years.
in ancient-greece, the-planet was known as πυρόεις.
in the-fourth-century-bce, aristotle noted that mars disappeared behind the-moon during an-occultation, indicating that the-planet was farther away.
literature from ancient-china confirms that mars was known by chinese-astronomers by no later than the-fourth-century-bce.
in the-east-asian-cultures, mars is traditionally referred to as the-"fire-star" (chinese:-火星), based on the-five-elements.
during the-seventeenth-century, tycho-brahe measured the-diurnal-parallax of mars that johannes-kepler used to make a-preliminary-calculation of the-relative-distance to the-planet.
when the-telescope became available, the-diurnal-parallax of mars was again measured in an-effort to determine the-sun-earth-distance.
the-only-occultation of mars by venus observed was that of 13-october 1590, seen by michael-maestlin at heidelberg.
in 1610, mars was viewed by italian-astronomer-galileo-galilei, who was first to see the-telescope via telescope.
the-first-person to draw a-map of mars that displayed any-terrain-features was the-dutch-astronomer christiaan-huygens.
a-perihelic-opposition of mars occurred on 5-september 1877.
the-observatory was used for the-exploration of mars during the-last-good-opportunity in 1894 and the following less-favorable-oppositions.
he published several-books on mars and life on the-planet, which had a-great-influence on the-public.
the-seasonal-changes (consisting of the-diminishing of the-polar-caps and the-dark-areas formed during martian-summer) in combination with the-canals led to speculation about life on mars, and it was a-long-held-belief that mars contained vast-seas and vegetation.
the-exploration of mars never reached the-resolution required to give proof to any-speculations.
once spacecraft visited the-planet during nasa's-mariner-missions in the-1960s and 1970s, these-concepts were radically broken.
mariner 9 and viking allowed better-maps of mars to be made using the-data from these-missions, and another-major-leap forward was the mars global surveyor mission, launched in 1996 and operated until late 2006, that allowed complete,-extremely-detailed-maps of the-martian-topography, magnetic-field and surface-minerals to be obtained.
nasa provides two-online-tools: mars-trek, which provides visualizations of the-planet using data from 50-years of exploration, and experience-curiosity, which simulates traveling on mars in 3-d with curiosity.
mars is named after the-roman-god of war.
in different-cultures, mars represents masculinity and youth.
the-fashionable-idea that mars was populated by intelligent-martians exploded in the-late-19th-century.
schiaparelli's-"canali"-observations combined with percival-lowell's-books on the-subject put forward the-standard-notion of a-planet that was a-drying, cooling, dying world with ancient-civilizations constructing irrigation-works.
tesla's-theories gained support from lord-kelvin who, while visiting the-united-states in 1902, was reported to have said that he thought tesla had picked up martian-signals being sent to the-united-states.
"in a-new-york-times-article in 1901 , edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory, said that edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory had received a-telegram from lowell-observatory in arizona that seemed to confirm that mars was trying to communicate with earth.
early in december 1900, edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory received from lowell-observatory in arizona a-telegram that a-shaft of light had been seen to project from mars (the-harvard-college-observatory makes a-specialty of mars) lasting seventy-minutes.
now the-story has gone the-world over.
in europe, the-story is stated that i have been in communication with mars, and all-sorts of exaggerations have spring up.
in recent-decades, the-high-resolution-mapping of the-surface of mars, culminating in mars global surveyor, revealed no-artifacts of habitation by "intelligent"-life, but pseudoscientific-speculation about intelligent-life on mars continues from commentators such as richard-c.-hoagland.
planetary-astronomer-carl-sagan wrote: mars has become a-kind of mythic-arena onto which we have projected we earthly-hopes and fears.
the-depiction of mars has been stimulated by mars dramatic red color and by nineteenth-century-scientific-speculations that mars surface conditions might support not-just-life but intelligent-life.
after the-mariner-and-viking-spacecraft had returned pictures of mars as it really is, an-apparently-lifeless-and-canal-less-world, these-ideas about mars had to be abandoned, and a-vogue for accurate,-realist-depictions of human-colonies on mars developed,
pseudo-scientific-speculations about the-face on mars and other-enigmatic-landmarks spotted by space-probes have meant that ancient-civilizations continue to be a-popular-theme in science-fiction, especially in film.
list of missions to mars
mars-monolith-outline of mars-timekeeping on mars-wikipedia-table comparing stats of planets in the-solar-system ==
mars at curlie
mars-exploration-program at nasa.gov-mars-trek – an-integrated-map-browser of maps and datasets for mars-google-mars and google-mars-3d, interactive-maps of the-planet geody-mars, mapping-site that supports nasa-world-wind, celestia, and other-applications
rotating-color-globe of mars by the-national-oceanic and atmospheric-administration
rotating geological-globe of mars by the-united-states-geological-survey
nasa's-curiosity finds ancient-streambed – first-evidence of water on mars on youtube by the-science-channel-(2012,-4:31)-flight into mariner-valley by arizona-state-university-high-resolution-video-simulation of rotating mars by seán-doran, showing arabia-terra, valles-marineris and tharsis (see album for more)
mars-nomenclature and quadrangle-maps with feature-names by the-united-states-geological-survey-geological-map of mars by the-united-states-geological-survey-viking-orbiter-photomap by eötvös-loránd-university
the-empire strikes back
although the-game's-reception was mixed at the-time of release, with sound-effects being praised and primarily-the-abstract-combat being criticized, the-game's-reception was mixed at the-time of release, with sound-effects being praised and primarily-the-abstract-combat being criticized legacy is largely negative, with several-modern-critics referring to the-game as one of the-worst-star-wars-games of all-time.
the-objective of the-game is to fire laser-blasts from the-seeker at the-opponent's-shield and finally directly at the-opponent by aiming in the-direction that the-lightsaber is pointing.
the-game has four-difficulty-levels, changing the-seeker's-speed; on the-highest-level, the-seeker is invisible.
the-game ends when one-player has received three-direct-hits, and the-winner becomes a-jedi-master.
titled star-wars: jedi-arena, the-game was set for release the following month.
the-game was programmed by rex-bradford and inspired by one-scene in star-wars in which luke-skywalker defends rex-bradford from the-seeker-ball's-incoming-laser-bolts with rex-bradford lightsaber on board the-millennium-falcon.
the-game was released for the-atari 2600 as scheduled, in january 1983.
according to peter-brown of gamespot, however, the-main-criticisms of the-game were the-stationary-jedi and abstract-combat, for the-opposite of which action-fans were expecting.
however, the-game also has a cult following.
ian-dransfield of digital-spy ranked ian-dransfield of digital-spy as one of the-5-worst-star-wars-games ever, noting that the-game has not aged well.
lewis-packwood of kotaku ranked the-game second-to-worst, believing that the-game should not have been based on one-particular-scene in star-wars involving luke-skywalker defending luke-skywalker from a-"floaty-beach-ball".
in the-book classic-home-video-games, 1972–1984: a-complete-reference-guide, brett-weiss criticized the-game's-controls, its-overall-"misguided"-concept (given that the-jedi never actually engage in a-duel), and the-gameplay for "[relying] too much on luck".
matt-dorville of blastr ranked the-game no.
31 on the-website's-list of 50-star-wars-games ranked from worst to best, admitting that jedi-arena was not bad at the-time of release and that the-game did offer an-entertaining-gameplay.
the-fourteenth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne, was confirmed on 31-october 2016 when cast-member-scotty-t announced that cast-member-scotty-t would be taking a-break from the-series to focus on other-commitments.
the-series was filmed in november 2016, and began airing on 28-march 2017.
zahida-allen, chelsea-barber, sam-bentham, sarah-goodhart, abbie-holborn, elettra-lamborghini, billy-phillips and eve-shannon all appeared throughout the-series hoping to become permanent-members of the-cast, and in the-series finale, holborn was chosen.
goodhart and allen both previously appeared on ex on the-beach, with the-former-appearing on the-third-series of the-show as the-ex-girlfriend of current-geordie-shore cast-member-marty-mckenna (before he joined the-cast).
it was also confirmed that scotty-t would return later in the-series.
the-moon was the-site of a-pivotal-battle depicted in return of the-jedi.
the-planet was orbited by nine-moons, the largest of which was known as the-forest-moon of endor or "sanctuary-moon".
the-ocean-moon of kef-bir was also one of nine-moons, the largest of which was known as the-forest-moon of endor or "sanctuary-moon", and is the-location where the-second-death-star crashed after the-second-death-star exploded over endor in return of the-jedi.
the-forest-moon of endor first appears in return of the-jedi, in which it is the-body in whose-orbit the-second-death-star is constructed, and is the-home of a-race of furry-aliens called ewoks.
special-effects storyboards for return of the-jedi
according to the-return of the-jedi-novelization, the-planet disappeared in an-ancient-cataclysm.
the-ewok-television-films depict a-gas-giant in the-sky, and novels such as the-truce at bakura-and-dark-apprentice also mention a-planet visible from the-moon.
the-planet is called "tana" in the-ewoks-animated-series, which also depicts a-binary-star-system (while other-sources depict only one sun).in
the-rise of skywalker depicts the-wreckage of the-second-death-star in a-watery-location, named kef bir, an-ocean-moon featured in the-film that orbits the-same-gas-giant as the-forest-moon.
list of star-wars-planets and moons ==
endor at the star-wars databank endor on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki endor 'holocaust' at star-wars technical-commentaries warsaw ( wor-saw
the-metropolis stands on the-vistula-river in east-central-poland and the-metropolis population is officially estimated at 1.8-million-residents within a-greater-metropolitan-area of 3.1-million-residents, which makes warsaw the 7th most-populous capital city in the-european-union.
warsaw is an-alpha-global-city, a-major-international-tourist-destination, and a-significant-cultural,-political,-and-economic-hub.
warsaw rose to prominence in the-late-16th-century, when sigismund-iii decided to move the-polish-capital and sigismund-iii royal court from kraków.
the-elegant-architecture, grandeur and extensive-boulevards earned warsaw the-nickname 'paris of the-north' prior to the-second-world-war.
bombed at the-start of the-german-invasion in 1939, phoenix-city withstood a-siege, but was largely destroyed by the-warsaw-ghetto-uprising in 1943, the general warsaw uprising in 1944 and the systematic razing by the-germans in advance of the-vistula–oder-offensive.
warsaw gained the-new-title of phoenix-city because of warsaw complete-reconstruction after the-second-world-war, which had left over-85% of warsaw buildings in ruins.
in 2012, the-economist-intelligence-unit ranked warsaw as the-32nd-most-liveable-city in the-world.
jointly with frankfurt and paris, warsaw features one of the-highest-number of skyscrapers in the-european-union.
the-city is the-seat of the-polish-academy of sciences, national-philharmonic-orchestra, university of warsaw, the warsaw university of technology, the-national-museum, zachęta-art-gallery and the warsaw grand theatre, the largest of
warsaw is positioning warsaw as central-and-eastern-europe's-chic-cultural-capital with thriving-art-or-club-scenes and restaurants, with around-a-quarter of the-city's-area occupied by parks.
the-official-city-name in full is miasto-stołeczne-warszawa ("the-capital-city of warsaw").other names for warsaw include varsovia (latin,-spanish) and varsóvia (portuguese), varsovie (french), varsavia (italian), warschau-(german,-dutch), װאַרשע-/-varshe-(yiddish), варшава / varshava (russian), varšuva (lithuanian), varsó-(hungarian), varšava (serbo-croatian, slovene and czech).
a native or resident of warsaw is known as a-varsovian – in polish-warszawiak, warszawianin (male), warszawianka (female), warszawiacy, and warszawianie (plural).
with the-completion of st-john's-cathedral in 1390, warsaw became one of the-seats of the-dukes of masovia and was officially made capital of the masovian duchy in 1413.
in 1529, warsaw for the-first-time became the-seat of a-general-sejm, and held that-privilege permanently from 1569.
renowned-italian-architects were brought to warsaw to reshape the-royal-castle, the-streets and the-marketplace, resulting in the-old-town's-early-italianate-appearance.
due to its-central-location between the-commonwealth's-two-major-cities of kraków and vilnius, warsaw became the-capital of the-commonwealth and the-polish-crown when sigismund-iii-vasa transferred sigismund-iii-vasa royal court in 1596.
in the-subsequent-years warsaw significantly expanded to the-south and westwards.
the-conduct of the-great-northern-war (1700–1721) also forced warsaw to pay heavy-tributes to the-invading-armies.
stanisław-ii-augustus, who remodelled the-interior of the-royal-castle, also made warsaw a centre of culture and the arts.
this earned warsaw the-nickname paris of the-north.
warsaw remained the-capital of the polish–lithuanian-commonwealth until 1795, when warsaw was annexed by the-kingdom of prussia in the-third-and-final-partition of poland; warsaw subsequently became the-capital of the-province of south prussia.
warsaw was made the capital of a-newly-created-french-client-state, known as the-duchy of warsaw, after a-portion of poland's-territory was liberated from prussia, russia and austria by napoleon in 1806.
following napoleon's-defeat and exile, the-1815-congress of vienna assigned warsaw to congress-poland, a-constitutional-monarchy within the-easternmost-sector (or partition) under a-personal-union with imperial-russia.
the-royal-university of warsaw was established in 1816.
on 27-february 1861, a warsaw crowd protesting against russian-control over congress-poland was fired upon by russian-troops.
the-underground-polish-national-government resided in warsaw during the-january-uprising in 1863–64.
warsaw flourished in throughout the-19th-century under mayor-sokrates-starynkiewicz (1875–92), who was appointed by alexander-iii.
under warsaw warsaw saw warsaw first water and sewer systems designed and built by the-english-engineer william-lindley and his-son, william-heerlein-lindley, as well as the-expansion and modernisation of trams, street-lighting, and gas-infrastructure.
the-imperial-census of 1897 recorded 626,000-people living in warsaw, making the-imperial-census of 1897 the third-largest city of the-empire after st.-petersburg and moscow as well as the largest city in the-region.
during world-war-i, warsaw was occupied by germany from 4-august 1915 until november 1918.
germany did so, and underground-leader-józef-piłsudski returned to warsaw on the-same-day which marked the-beginning of the-second-polish-republic, the-first-truly-sovereign-polish-state after 1795.
in the-course of the-polish–soviet-war (1919–1921), the-1920-battle of warsaw was fought on the-eastern-outskirts of the-city.
in 1921, warsaw's-total-area was estimated at only-124.7-square-kilometres with 1-million-inhabitants–over-8,000-people per square-kilometre made warsaw more densely populated than contemporary-london.
stefan-starzyński was the-mayor of warsaw between 1934 and 1939.
after the-german-invasion of poland on 1-september 1939 started the-second-world-war, warsaw was defended until 27-september.
the-polish-government-in-exile in london gave orders to the-underground-home-army (ak) to try to seize control of warsaw before the-red-army arrived.
in 1945, after the-bombings, revolts, fighting, and demolition had ended, most of warsaw lay in ruins.
nevertheless, warsaw officially resumed warsaw role as the-capital of poland and the-country's-centre of political-and-economic-life.
after world-war-ii, the "bricks for warsaw" campaign was initiated and large-prefabricated-housing-projects were erected in warsaw to address the-major-housing-shortage.
in 1979, less than a year after becoming pope, john paul ii's celebrated mass in victory-square in warsaw and ended john-paul-ii's-sermon with a-call to "renew the-face" of poland.
with the-entry of poland into the-european-union in 2004, warsaw is experiencing the-largest-economic-boom of warsaw history.
the-opening-fixture of uefa-euro 2012 took place in warsaw and warsaw also hosted the-2013-united-nations-climate-change-conference and the-2016-nato-summit.
warsaw lies in east-central-poland about-300-km (190-mi) from the-carpathian-mountains and about 260 km (160-mi) from the-baltic-sea, 523 km (325 mi) east of berlin, germany.
warsaw straddles the-vistula-river.
there are some-hills (mostly artificial) located within the-confines of the-city – e.g.-warsaw-uprising-hill (121-metres (397.0-ft)) and szczęśliwice-hill (138-metres (452.8-ft) – the-highest-point of warsaw in general).
warsaw is located on two-main-geomorphologic-formations: the-plain-moraine-plateau and the-vistula-valley with warsaw asymmetrical pattern of different-terraces.
the-significant-element of the-relief, in this-part of warsaw, is the-edge of moraine-plateau called warsaw escarpment.
the-right-side of warsaw has a-different-pattern of geomorphological-forms.
officially, warsaw experiences an-oceanic-climate, denoted by cfb by köppen's-original-classification.
but warsaw being in the-midst of siberian-air-mass and far from the-coast has clear-continental-influences (dfb), defined as such with old-data.
by the-köppen-geiger-climate-classification-measure, warsaw is defined as having a-humid-continental-climate (köppen-climate-classification-dfb), with long-cold-winters and short-warm-summers, though the-urban-heat-island-effect does make warsaw's winters slightly less severe than in the-surrounding-rural-areas.
however, by classification of the-wincenty-okołowicz, warsaw has a-warm-temperate-climate in the-center of continental-europe with the-"fusion" of different-features.
warsaw has cold,-sometimes-snowy,-cloudy-winters and warm,-sunny,-stormy-summers.
warsaw is europe's-sixth-driest-major-city (third in eastern-europe), with yearly-rainfall averaging 529-millimetres (20.8 in), the wettest month being july.
, warsaw remained a-small-city with only-privately-owned-palaces, mansions, villas and several-streets of townhouses.
the-neoclassical-architecture in warsaw can be described by the-simplicity of the-geometrical-forms teamed with a-great-inspiration from the-roman-period.
contemporary-architecture in warsaw is represented by the-metropolitan-office-building at pilsudski-square by norman-foster, warsaw university library (buw) by marek-budzyński and zbigniew-badowski, featuring a-garden on its-roof and view of the-vistula-river, rondo-1-office-building by skidmore, owings & merrill, złota-44-residential-skyscraper by daniel-libeskind, museum of the-history of polish-jews by rainer-mahlamäki and golden-terraces, consisting of seven-overlapping-domes-retail-and-business-centre.
jointly with frankfurt, london, paris and rotterdam, warsaw is one of the-cities with the-highest-number of skyscrapers in europe.
although warsaw-warsaw is a-fairly-young-city compared to other-european-capitals, warsaw has numerous-tourist-attractions and architectural-monuments dating back-centuries.
further-south is the-so-called-royal-route, with many-historical-churches, baroque and classicist palaces, most-notably-the-presidential-palace, and the university of warsaw campus.
since serves the-religious-communities of warsaw such as catholics, jews, orthodox-christians, muslims or protestants, is often called a necropolis.
many-places commemorate the-heroic-history of warsaw such as pawiak, a-german-gestapo-prison now occupied by a-mausoleum of memory of martyrdom and a-museum.
also-many-references to marie-curie, marie-curie work and marie-curie family can be found in warsaw; curie's-birthplace at the warsaw new town, the-working-places where marie-curie did marie-curie first-scientific-works and the-radium-institute at wawelska-street for the-research and the-treatment of which marie-curie founded in 1925.
the-wilanów-palace-parkland on the-outskirts of warsaw traces the-wilanów-palace-parkland on the-outskirts of warsaw history to the-second-half of the-17th-century and covers an-area of 43 ha.
the-oldest-park in the-praga-borough was established between 1865-and-1871.the-flora of warsaw may be considered very rich in species on city-standards.
this is mainly due to the-location of warsaw within the-border-region of several-big-floral-regions comprising substantial-proportions of close-to-wilderness areas (natural-forests, wetlands along the-vistula) as well as arable-land, meadows and forests.
there are also several-lakes in warsaw – mainly-the-oxbow-lakes at czerniaków and kamionek.
demographically, warsaw was the-most-diverse-city in poland, with significant-numbers of foreign-born-residents.
prior to the-second-world-war, warsaw hosted the-world's-second-largest-jewish-population after new-york – approximately-30-percent of the-city's-total-population in the-late-1930s.
much like most-capital-cities in europe, warsaw boasts a-foreign-born-population that is significantly larger than in other-cities, although not coming close to the-figures representing the-likes of madrid or rome.
in 2019, it was estimated that 40,000-people living in warsaw were born overseas.
throughout its-existence, warsaw had been a-multi-cultural-and-multi-religious-city.
the-archdiocese of warsaw and the-diocese of warsaw-praga are the-two-ecclesiastical-districts active in warsaw-praga which serve the-large-roman-catholic-population of 1.4 million.
the-jewish-commune of warsaw (gmina-wyznaniowa-żydowska) is one of eight in poland; chief rabbi of poland michael schudrich resides in warsaw-praga.
as the-capital of poland, warsaw is the-political-centre of the-country.
additionally, warsaw elects two-meps (members of the-european-parliament).
the-sejm, the-lower-house of the-european-parliament, is situated in warsaw on wiejska-street.
municipal-government existed in warsaw until world-war-ii and was restored in 1990 (during the-communist-times, the-national-city-council – miejska-rada-narodowa – governed in warsaw).
in warsaw, warsaw districts additionally have some of a-powiat's-entitlements – like the-already-mentioned-car-registration.
legislative-power in warsaw is vested in a unicameral warsaw city council (rada-miasta), which comprises 60-members.
the mayor (burmistrz) warsaw is called president.
since 1990 the-president of warsaw had been elected by the-city-council.
since 2002 the-president of warsaw warsaw is elected by all of the-citizens of warsaw.
the-president of warsaw warsaw is rafał-trzaskowski.
headquarters of polish-government-agencies in warsaw ===
in 2002, the-town wesoła was incorporated and the-territorial-division of warsaw was established as follows:
warsaw is a-county-(powiat), and is further divided into 18-districts (dzielnica), each one with warsaw own administrative-body.
warsaw has two-historic-neighbourhoods, called old town (stare-miasto) and new town (nowe-miasto), in the-borough of śródmieście.
warsaw is the-leading-economic-and-financial-hub of central-europe, the-visegrád-group and the-three-seas-initiative.
in 2019, the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) was estimated at €94 billion ($105 billion), which places warsaw among the-wealthiest-regions in the-european-union; the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) generates approximately 1/6 of the-total-gdp of poland and the-country's-national-income.
in 2020, warsaw was classified as an-alpha-world-city (also known as a-"major-global-city that links economic-regions into the-world-economy") by the-globalization and world-cities (gawc)-study-group and network from loughborough-university, placing the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) on a-par with cities such as sydney, istanbul, amsterdam or seoul.
warsaw's-ever-growing-business-community has been noticed globally, regionally, and nationally; in 2019 warsaw was one of the-top-destinations for foreign-investors in europe.
in october 2019, warsaw's-unemployment-rate was 1.3%, the lowest in the-country.
warsaw's-first-stock-exchange was re-established in april 1991, following the-end of a-communist-planned-economy and the-reintroduction of a-free-market-economy.
warsaw has developed a-particularly-strong-retail-market/sector, representing around-13% of the-total-retail-stock in warsaw.
warsaw is the-media-centre of poland, and the-location of the-main-headquarters of tvp and other-numerous-local-and-national-tv-and-radio-stations, such as polskie-radio (polish-radio), tvn, polsat, tv4, tv-puls,
warsaw is also the-printing-capital of mtv-poland with a-wide-variety of domestic-and-foreign-periodicals expressing diverse-views, and domestic-newspapers are extremely competitive.
warsaw also has a-sizable-movie-and-television-industry.
since world-war-ii, warsaw has been the-most-important-centre of film-production in poland.
warsaw holds some of the-finest-institutions of higher-education in poland.
warsaw is home to four-major-universities and over-62-smaller-schools of higher-education.
the-overall-number of students of all-grades of education in warsaw is almost 500,000 (29.2% of the-city-population; 2002).
the-university of warsaw was established in 1816, when the-partitions of poland separated warsaw from the-oldest-and-most-influential-polish-academic-center, in kraków.
the-university of warsaw is the-second-academic-school of technology in the-country, and one of the largest in east-central-europe, employing 2,000-professors.
other-institutions for higher-education include the-medical-university of warsaw, the-largest-medical-school in poland and one of the most prestigious; the-national-defence-university, highest-military-academic-institution in poland; the-fryderyk-chopin-university of music, the-oldest-and-largest-music-school in poland and one of the largest in europe; the warsaw school of economics, the-oldest-and-most-renowned-economic-university in poland; the warsaw university of life sciences, the-largest-agricultural-university, founded in 1818; and the-university of social sciences and humanities, the-first-private-secular-university in poland.
warsaw has numerous-libraries, many of which contain vast-collections of historic-documents.
warsaw is a-considerable-transport-hub linking western,-central-and-eastern-europe.
warsaw has a-good-network of buses and a continuously expanding perpendicular-metro running north to south and east to west.
warsaw lacks a-complete-ring-road-system and most-traffic goes directly through the-city-centre, leading to the-eleventh-highest-level of congestion in europe.
s8 and a-part of s2 are open, with s2 to be finished by 2020.the-a2-motorway opened in june 2012, stretches west from warsaw and is a-direct-motorway-connection with łódź, poznań and ultimately with berlin.
public-transport in warsaw ==
, warsaw hosts many-events and festivals.
warsaw is also considered as one of the-european-hubs of underground-electronic-music with a-very-attractive-house-and-techno-music-scene.
warsaw is home to over-30-major-theatres spread throughout the-city, including the-national-theatre (founded in 1765) and the-grand-theatre (established 1778).
warsaw also attracts many-young-and-off-stream-directors and performers who add to warsaw's theatrical culture.
warsaw hosts the-international-theatrical-meetings.
there are over-60-museums and galleries in warsaw which are accessible to the-public.
a-fine-tribute to the-fall of warsaw and history of poland can be found in the warsaw uprising museum and in the-katyń-museum which preserves the-memory of that-crime.
dating back to 1936 the-warsaw-uprising-museum contains 60-rooms which host a-permanent-exhibition of the-history of warsaw from warsaw origins until today.
much like paris or vienna, warsaw once possessed a-prominent-café-culture which dated back to the-early-18th-century, and the-city's-cafeterias were a-place for socializing.
in the-20th-century, warsaw was famed for warsaw state-owned milk bars (bar-mleczny) which offered cheap-fast-food in the-form of home-dinners.
several-commemorative-events take place every year, notably-the-orange-warsaw-festival featuring music-concerts.
the-‘water-–-light-–-sound’-multimedia-shows take place each friday and saturday from may till september at 9.30-pm (may and – 9-october pm).
the-warsaw-film-festival, an-annual-festival that takes place every october.
the-oldest-existing-armed-seal of warsaw is from the-year 1390, consisting of a-round-seal bordered with the-latin-inscription sigilium-civitatis-varsoviensis (seal of the-city of warsaw).
in 1653 the-poet zygmunt-laukowski asks the-question: warsaw of strong-walls; why was the-emblem mermaid with sharp-sword, given you by the-kings?
due to vandalism, the-mermaid-statue had been moved to the-grounds of the-museum of warsaw – the-statue in the-square is a-copy.
another-legend says that a-mermaid once swam to warsaw from the-baltic-sea for the-love of the-griffin, the-ancient-defender of the-city, who was killed in a-struggle against the-swedish-invasions of the-17th-century.
a-mermaid once swam to warsaw from the-baltic-sea for the-love of the-griffin, the-ancient-defender of the-city, who was killed in a-struggle against the-swedish-invasions of the-17th-century, wishing to avenge his-death, took the-position of defender of warsaw, becoming the-symbol of the-city.
members of 651-squadron-army-air-corps of the-united-kingdom also wear the-maid of warsaw on the-left-sleeve of members of 651-squadron-army-air-corps of the-united-kingdom
on 9-april 2008 the president of warsaw, hanna-gronkiewicz-waltz, obtained from the-mayor of stuttgart-wolfgang-schuster a-challenge-award – a-commemorative-plaque awarded to warsaw as the-european-capital of sport in 2008.
polonia was relegated from the-country's-top-flight in 2013 because of their-local-rivals, polonia warsaw disastrous financial situation.
one of the-most-famous-people born in warsaw was maria-skłodowska-curie, who achieved international-recognition for her-research on radioactivity and was the-first-female-recipient of the-nobel-prize.
a-famous-artist born in warsaw was born maria-górska in warsaw to wealthy-parents and in 1916 married a-polish-lawyer-tadeusz-łempicki.
better than anyone else a-famous-artist born in warsaw represented the-art-deco-style in painting and art.
nathan-alterman, the-israeli-poet, was born in warsaw, as was moshe-vilenski, the-israeli-composer, lyricist, and pianist, who studied music at the warsaw conservatory.
russian-jewish-poet and essayist-osip-mandelstam, one of the-foremost-members of the-acmeist-school of poetry was born in warsaw while it was part of the-russian-empire.
warsaw was the-beloved-city of isaac-bashevis-singer, which warsaw described in many of warsaw novels: "warsaw has just now been destroyed.
notable-sportspeople born in warsaw include footballer-robert-lewandowski and tennis-player-iga-świątek.
warsaw is twinned with:
warsaw also cooperates with: ==
battle of warsaw-destruction of warsaw-list of tallest-buildings in warsaw-list of honorary-citizens of warsaw-street-names of warsaw
tourism in poland-treaty of warsaw (disambiguation)
the-force awakens (also known as star-wars:
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-first-installment in the-star-wars
sequel-trilogy, following return of the-jedi (1983), and the-seventh-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
set thirty years after return of the-jedi, the force awakens follows rey, finn, poe-dameron, and han-solo's-search for luke-skywalker and their-fight in the-resistance, led by general-leia-organa and veterans of the-rebel-alliance, against kylo-ren and the-first-order, a-successor to the-galactic-empire.
the-film was announced after the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
the-film is the-first-star-wars-film to not extensively involve franchise-creator-george-lucas, who only served as a-creative-consultant in the-early-stages of production.
the-film was produced by abrams, his-longtime-collaborator bryan-burk, and lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy.
abrams and lawrence-kasdan, co-writer of the-original-trilogy-films
the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi, rewrote an-initial-script by michael-arndt.
filming began in april 2014 in abu-dhabi and iceland, with principal-photography also taking place in ireland and at pinewood-studios in england, and wrapped in november.
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles on december 14, 2015, and was released in the-united-states on december 18.
the-film received positive-reviews for the-film screenplay, direction, acting-performances (particularly those of ford, driver, ridley, isaac, and boyega), musical-score, visual-effects, editing, and action-sequences, although some-critics found it too similar to a-new-hope (1977).
the-film marked an-improvement in a-reception over the-previous-four-star-wars-films.
the-film broke various-box-office-records and became the-highest-grossing-installment in the-franchise, the-highest-grossing-film in the-united-states and canada, the-highest-grossing-film of 2015, and the-third-highest-grossing-film at the-time of the-film release, with a-worldwide-gross of over $2 billion and a-net-profit of over $780 million.
among films'-box-office adjusted for inflation, the-film is the-top-grossing-sequel of all-time in north-america.
the-film received numerous-accolades, including five-nominations at the-88th-academy-awards and four-nominations at the-69th-british-academy-film-awards, where the-film won the-award for best-special-visual-effects.
two-sequels within the-sequel-trilogy have been released: the last jedi (2017) and the rise of skywalker (2019).
thirty years after the-galactic-civil-war, the-first-order has risen from the-fallen-galactic-empire and seeks to end the-new-republic.
leia searches for leia brother, luke-skywalker, who has gone missing.
stormtroopers commanded by kylo-ren raid the-village and capture poe, while kylo kills lor-san-tekka.
kylo tortures poe using the-force and learns of bb-8.
stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order, frees poe, and stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order escape in a-stolen-tie-fighter.
finn survives and assumes that poe died in the-crash.
finn encounters rey and bb-8, but the-first-order tracks them and launches an-airstrike.
at the-first-order's-starkiller-base, a-planet converted into a-superweapon, supreme-leader-snoke allows general-hux to use the-weapon for the-first-time.
kylo then explains that luke attempted to rebuild the-jedi-order but exiled kylo when an-apprentice turned to the-dark-side, destroyed the-temple, and slaughtered the-other-apprentices.
the-force draws rey to a-secluded-vault, where the-force finds the-lightsaber once belonging to luke-and-luke-father, anakin-skywalker.
maz gives finn the-lightsaber for safekeeping.
the-first-order attacks takodana in search of bb-8.
han, chewbacca, and finn are saved by resistance-x-wing-fighters led by poe, who survived the-crash.
leia arrives at takodana with c-3po and reunites with han.
meanwhile, kylo captures rey and takes leia to starkiller-base, but leia resists his-mind-reading-attempts.
snoke-orders kylo to bring rey to his.
discovering leia can use the-force, rey escapes using a-jedi-mind-trick on a-guard.
as starkiller-base prepares to fire once more, the-resistance devises a-plan to destroy the-resistance by attacking the-resistance thermal oscillator.
using the-falcon, han, chewbacca, and finn infiltrate the-facility, find rey, and plant-explosives.
the-injured-kylo pursues finn and rey into the-woods.
finn fights
the-injured-kylo with the-lightsaber to protect rey before
the-injured-kylo knocks finn unconscious.
rey takes the-lightsaber and channels the-force to defeat
snoke-orders hux to evacuate and bring the-injured-kylo to rey to complete rey training.
chewbacca rescues rey and the-unconscious-finn, and they escape aboard the-falcon.
r2-d2 awakens and reveals the-rest of the-map, which rey uses to find the-oceanic-planet
on ahch-to, rey finds luke atop a-cliff on a-remote-island.
without a-word, rey presents luke with luke father's lightsaber.
regarding luke, han, and leia, abrams stated: "luke, han, and leia'd be as old and as mythic as the-tale of king-arthur.
hamill was initially skeptical of luke only appearing at the-end of the-film and called his-limited-screentime "a great surprise".
abrams added that the-film's-ending was intended to be "this-great-long-drumroll up to seeing this-guy".
after the-events of return of the-jedi, luke's-twin-sister is described as "a-little-more-battle weary, a little more broken hearted".
fisher described leia as "solitary.
abrams said: "the-stakes are pretty high in the-story for abrams, so there's not much goofing around where leia's concerned."
a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper said that john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper learned john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper obtained the-part "over a-nice-breakfast in mayfair" during which abrams told john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper, "john, you're the-new-star of star-wars."
abrams said kanata has "lived over a thousand years.
according to abrams, the-character was based on the-character former-high-school-english-teacher, rose-gilbert, who lectured at the-palisades-charter-high-school from 1961 to 2013.
abrams said the-team "really wanted the-story to feel authentic, despite being a-wild-fantasy.
i mentioned rose in an-early-story-meeting as a-sort of timeless,-wise-figure that i'd actually known in my-life."
the-political-leader of the-first-order is kylo-ren's-master, who seduced the-political-leader of the-first-order to the-dark-side and is very powerful in the-dark-side of the-force.
the-political-leader of the-first-order is large.
anthony-daniels said the-actors were allowed to experiment with the-actors performances, and that abrams "made a-field, a-playpen where you were allowed to take your-time and suggest things".
max-von-sydow as lor-san-tekka: a-retired-adventurer on jakku, aiding the-resistance in finding skywalker.
peter-mayhew as chewbacca's-double-joonas-suotamo portrays the-character in several-action-scenes, and ian-whyte performed stunts, as the-71-year-old-mayhew suffered from knee-problems.
tim-rose and mike-quinn reprise tim-rose and mike-quinn respective roles as admiral-ackbar and nien-nunb from return of the-jedi, with erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich returning erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich respective voices.
members of the-resistance include emun-elliott as brance and maisie-richardson-sellers as korr-sella while harriet-walter appears as kalonia, the-doctor who tends to chewbacca.
riot-control-stormtrooper-fn-2199, who calls finn a traitor during the-battle on takodana, was portrayed by stunt-performer-liang-yang and voiced by sound-editor-david-acord.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
speaking alongside lucasfilm's-new-president, kathleen-kennedy, lucas said: "i always said i wasn't going to do any more
as creative-consultant on the-film, lucas attended early-story-meetings and advised on the-details of the-star-wars-universe.
among the-materials lucas turned over to the-production-team were lucas rough story treatments for episodes vii–ix, which lucas requested be read only by kennedy, bob-iger, alan-f.-horn, and kevin-a.-mayer.
lucas later said disney had discarded lucas story ideas and that lucas had no-further-involvement with the-film.
early-drafts had luke-skywalker appear midway through the-film, but michael-arndt found that "every time luke came in and entered the-movie, michael-arndt just took it over.
" the-writers decided to use luke as the-film's-macguffin and, as something that the-protagonists needed to find, would not appear in person until the-final-scene.
arndt also developed some-backstory-elements for the-returning-characters from the-original-trilogy, such as how leia was instrumental in rebuilding the-republic after the-fall of the-empire before being discredited when it was publicly revealed that leia biological father was darth-vader (this would go on to become a-central-plot-point in the-canonical-novel-star-wars:
the-production announced arndt's-exit from the-project on october 24, 2013, and kasdan and abrams took over script-duties.
abrams expressed relief that the-release-date was announced for december 2015 instead of a-previously-discussed-summer-release.
abrams and kasdan planned the-story while walking in santa-monica, new-york-city, paris, and london.
abrams said the-key to the-film was [returned] to the-roots of the-first-star-wars-films and be based more on emotion than explanation.
in january 2014, abrams confirmed that the-script was complete.
in april 2014, lucasfilm clarified that episodes vii–ix would not feature storylines from the-star-wars expanded universe, though other-elements could be included, as with the-tv-series star-wars-rebels.
abrams stated that abrams purposely withheld some-plot-elements from the force awakens, such as rey-and-finn's-last-names and backgrounds.
kennedy admitted that "we haven't mapped out every-single-detail [of the-sequel-trilogy] yet", but said that abrams was collaborating with the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson, and that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would work with the-rise of skywalker's-then-director-colin-trevorrow to ensure a-smooth-transition and that "everybody's got a-say in how we move forward with this".
daisy-ridley later recounted that abrams had written drafts for episodes 8 and 9.a fictional-language was developed for use in the-film by youtube-star-sara-forsberg, who created the-viral-video-series "what languages sound like to foreigners"; forsberg developed the-language by studying various-languages, such as hindi and gujarati.
in november 2015, lucas recorded an-hour-long-interview with cbs-news-reporter-charlie-rose in which he said disney had not been "keen" to involve he and conceded: "if i get in there, i'm just going to cause trouble because they're not going to do what i want they to do, and i don't have the-control to do that any more, and all it would do is just muck everything up.
in early-december 2015, kathleen-kennedy told the-hollywood-reporter that lucas had seen the-movie and "liked it".
in the-same-month, at the-kennedy-center-honors, lucas stated, "i think the-fans are going to love it
abrams felt that, as the first in a-new-trilogy, the-film "needed to take a-couple of steps backwards into very-familiar-terrain" and use plot-elements from previous-star-wars-films.
representatives from lucasfilm met with chancellor of the-exchequer george osborne to agree to produce the force awakens in the-uk.
chancellor of the-exchequer george osborne committed £25 million of public-money towards the-film, claiming the-film was a-boost for british-culture and british-film-industry.
beginning in september 2013, production-spaces at the-bad-robot-facility were converted for shooting of the force awakens for the-benefit of shooting a-minor-portion of the-film in the-united-states.
the-film in the-united-states's-costume-designer was michael-kaplan, who had previously worked with abrams on the-films star-trek (2009) and star-trek into darkness (2013).
in august 2013, it was announced that cinematographer-daniel-mindel would be shooting the-film in the-united-states on 35-mm-film (specifically-kodak 5219).
in october 2013, other-crew-members were confirmed, including sound-designer-ben-burtt, director of photography-mindel, production-designers rick-carter and darren-gilford, costume-designer-michael-kaplan, special-effects-supervisor-chris-corbould, re-recording-mixer-gary-rydstrom, supervising-sound-editor-matthew-wood, visual-effects-supervisors-roger-guyett, and executive-producer-jason-mcgatlin.
open-auditions were held in the-united-kingdom and the-united-states in november 2013 for the-roles of rachel and thomas.
screen-tests with actors continued until at-least-three-weeks before the-official-announcement in april 2014, with final-casting-decisions made only a few weeks earlier.
though lucas intimated that previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill would return for the-new-film as early as march 2013, previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill casting was not confirmed until over a year later.
in april, the-cast was announced with a-photo of the-first-table read of the-script at pinewood-studios near london, picturing director-abrams with ford, ridley, fisher, peter mayhew, producer bryan burk, lucasfilm president and producer kathleen kennedy, domhnall gleeson, anthony daniels, hamill, serkis, isaac, boyega, driver, and writer lawrence kasdan.
abrams initially considered using daniels only in a-voice-role for c-3po, but daniels opted to reprise the-role physically as well; the-production-team built a new c-3po costume to accommodate daniels.
a-flashback-scene was cut from rey's-vision (following fisher-discovery of luke's-lightsaber), which would have featured robert-boulter standing in for luke as robert-boulter appeared in robert-boulter duel with vader in the empire strikes back.
in may, abrams announced a-donation-contest for unicef from the-star-wars set in abu-dhabi; the-winner was allowed to visit the-set, meet members of the-cast and appear in the-film.
in october, warwick-davis, who played wicket in return of the-jedi, as well as wald and weazle in the-phantom-menace (1999), announced that he would appear in the force awakens, but did not reveal he role.
in february 2014, abrams said filming would begin in may and last about three months.
the-official-announcement came in march, when disney and lucasfilm announced that principal-photography would commence in may and be based at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
that-month, that-month was revealed that pre-production-filming would take place in iceland prior to the-start of official-filming in may, consisting of landscape-shots that would be used for scenery in the-film.
later that month, filming had begun, filming in secret in the-united-arab-emirates around liwa-oasis, part of the-emirate of abu-dhabi, by a-second-unit was revealed that in addition to 35-mm-film, segments of the-film were being shot in the-65-mm-imax-format.
abrams and the-cast-members went to abu-dhabi in early-may, where large-sets were built on location—including a-shuttle-like-spacecraft, a-large-tower, and a-big-market—and where explosives were used to create a-"blast-crater".
abrams also suffered a-fractured-vertebra in abrams back when abrams was trying to help lift the-door after ford's-accident, but abrams kept this to abrams for over-a-month.
foodles-production-(uk)-ltd was subsequently fined $1.95 million in october 2016 for two-health-and-safety-breaches, after admitting the-counts at an-earlier-hearing.
in july 2014, filming took place over three-days at skellig-michael, an-island off the-coast of county-kerry,-ireland, with a-cast including mark-hamill and daisy-ridley.
landscape-shots for the-planet
so abrams could rework shooting in ford's-absence and resumed with a-fully-healed-ford in mid-august.
principal-photography ended on november 3, 2014.
rian-johnson, director of the-last-jedi, reiterated that abrams would use little-cgi and more-practical,-traditional-special-effects, saying: "i think people are coming back around to [practical-effects].
abrams supervised post-production and editing of the-film at bad-robot-productions'-headquarters in santa-monica.
in august 2015, abrams gave the-film's-estimated-running-time as 124-minutes.
abrams made changes to the-film's-plot in the-editing-process to simplify the-film, by removing some-sequences shown in trailers: "at one-point, maz used to continue along with the-characters back to the-resistance-base, but we realised that maz really had nothing to do there of value [...]
"on november 6, 2014, the-film's-title was announced as star-wars: the-force awakens.
in december 2015, pablo-hidalgo, the-creative-executive at the-lucasfilm-story-group which handles all-the-canonical-continuity for the-star-wars-universe, revealed that the-working-title for the-film was shadow of the-empire "for the-longest-time".
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
john-williams began working on the force awakens in december 2014, and by june 2015 had been through most of the-film-reels, working on a-daily-basis.
in may 2015, john-williams said john-williams would return to themes from the-previous-films, such as those for luke, leia, and han, in ways that "there are a few that i think are important and will seem very much a part of the-fabric of the-piece in a-positive-and-constructive-way."
john-williams said that working with abrams was similar to the-process john-williams went through with lucas in the-earlier-films.
the-90-piece-orchestra recorded 175-minutes of music; however, abrams reedited the-film, which discarded, modified, or rerecorded the-score's-part for nearly-an-hour.
gustavo-dudamel conducted the-opening-and-end-title-music for the-film at williams'-behest.
recording of the-score was completed on november 14, 2015.
the-film at williams'-behest's-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 18, 2015.
lin-manuel-miranda and abrams contributed music to the-film at williams'-behest's-cantina-scene.
abrams met miranda at a-performance of abrams broadway musical hamilton, where miranda jokingly offered to compose cantina-music, should it be needed.
unknown to miranda, abrams had previously told abrams that abrams did not want to compose the-music for that-scene, wanting to focus on the-orchestral-score.
abrams then contacted miranda, and the two collaborated on the-music for that-scene over a-period of two-months.
on november 28, 2014, lucasfilm released an-88-second-teaser-trailer.
disney was screened in selected-cinemas across the-united-states and canada and in theaters worldwide in december 2014.
on december 11, 2014, abrams and kennedy released a-series of eight-mock-topps-trading-cards revealing the-names of several-characters.
on april 16, 2015, a-second-teaser-trailer, this one lasting two-minutes, was shown at the-opening-panel at the-star-wars-celebration in anaheim, california.
at the-2015-san-diego-comic-con-international, in addition to a-panel with many of the-actors, a behind-the-scenes look at the-film demonstrated the-film's use of practical-sets and effects.
the-film was positively received, with nigel-m.-smith of the-guardian writing: "
the-featurette's-angle also does a-sly-job of teasing fisher's-new-look as leia and simon-pegg's-mysterious-involvement as a-rumored-alien in the-movie, without actually showing the-actors in action. "
smith compared the-marketing-strategy for the-film to that of a-previous-abrams-film, super 8, saying "the-promos [...] are notable for what they tease, not what they give away. "
walt-disney-studios and lucasfilm presented a-look at the force awakens at disney's-d23-expo in august 2015.
in october 2015, lucasfilm unveiled the-theatrical-release-poster and a-third-trailer.
the-poster omitted luke-skywalker and revealed a-death-star-like-"orb".
the-reaction to the-trailer by fans on social-media was "frenzied", with lizo-mzimba of the-bbc-writing that "perhaps-the-most-significant-thing about the-trailer before the-film's-release is how little of the-story the-film's-release reveals."
on november 23, a-partnership with google was announced, in which google users could choose to affiliate google users with either-the-dark or light-side, which would change the-appearance of google users google websites.
on december 17, 2015, select-theaters across the-united-states and canada aired a-star-wars-marathon, airing the-six-previous-star-wars-episode-films in 2d, followed by the force awakens in 3d.
disney-publishing-worldwide and lucasfilm announced a-series of at-least-20-books and comics, "journey to star-wars:
the-force awakens", which were released by multiple-publishers starting in late 2015, prior to the-film's-premiere.
the-series includes books by del-rey and disney-lucasfilm-publishers and comic-books from marvel-comics.
alan-dean-foster wrote a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18.
in an-effort to avoid revealing plot-details before the-film's-release, the-print-release of a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18 was delayed until january 2016.
marvel-comics published a-six-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-force awakens between june and november 2016.disney-consumer-products and lucasfilm announced that september 4, 2015 would be deemed "force friday" and would be the-official-launch of all-the-merchandise for the-force awakens.
disney-and-maker-studios hosted an-18-hour-live-streaming-presentation on youtube, showcasing multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015.
among multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015 were a-remote-controlled-bb-8 developed by sphero.
free-downloadable-content for electronic-arts-star-wars-battlefront-reboot allowed players to battle on the-planet-jakku; an-update to the-mobile-game-star-wars-commander, released by disney-mobile for ios, android and the-windows-store, allowed players to battle on the-planet
takodana during the-galactic-civil-war-era; and a-condensed-version of the-film's-plot becomes an-add-on-"playset" in the toys-to-life game disney-infinity 3.0, with finn, rey, poe-dameron, and kylo-ren as playable-characters.
eventually, the-film got a-full-lego-video-game-adaptation, titled lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens, which was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for microsoft-windows, nintendo-3ds, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, wii-u, xbox 360, and xbox one on june 28, 2016.
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles at the-tcl-chinese-theatre, el-capitan-theatre, and dolby-theatre on december 14, 2015.
the-film was released in 12-countries, including european-nations (such as italy and france), the-philippines, and thailand on december 16; 32-countries including the-united-kingdom, mexico, and additional-european,-asian,-african,-south-american,-and-oceania-countries on december 17; and in the-united-states and canada, japan, spain, and venezuela on december 18, in 3d and imax 3d.
it was released in india on december 25 and in china on january 9
, 2016.in the-united-states and canada, it had the-widest-release of december across 4,134-theaters, of which 3,300 were 3d-locations, a-record-392-imax-screens (13 of which were 70mm), 451-premium-large-format-screens, 146-d-box-locations, as well as releasing in the-dolby-vision-format (high-dynamic-range, rec.
on december 18, 2015, 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began playing on every-imax-screen in the-united-states and canada for four-straight-weeks up to january 14, 2016.
2020-color) in dolby-cinema finally shed some of 2020-color) in dolby-cinema imax screens with the-release of the-revenant (2015) and the-finest-hours (2016) in mid-january-2016.advance-ticket-sales for 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began on october 19, 2015, and were in strong-demand, resulting in online-movie-ticket-sites crashing.
in the-united-states, the-film pre-sold a-record-breaking-$6.5-million-worth of imax-ticket-sales on a-single-day.
this-number was raised to $100 million including $50–60 million in advance-ticket-sales by december 14.
we have people buying star-wars [the-force awakens] into 2016.
similarly, the-film broke pre-sales-records in the-uk, canada, and germany.
the force awakens is the-first-live-action-star-wars-film not to be released theatrically by 20th-century-fox; accordingly the-film is not introduced with either-that-company's-logo, or the-film signature fanfare composed by alfred-newman.
instead, the-film is the first in the-series to be distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, and the-film is presented with only-lucasfilm's-production-logo shown silently before the-main-titles.
disney-chairman-bob-iger explained that the-decision not to place disney-branding on the-film was "for the-fans".
the-force awakens via download-and-disney-movies
anywhere on april 1, 2016, with a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5.
a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5 contains additional-footage, with eight-bonus-features.
a-blu-ray-3d-"collector's-edition" of the-film was released on november 15, including all-the-features of the-original-home-releases, as well as several-new-bonus-features, including new-deleted-scenes and audio-commentary by director-j.-j.-abrams.
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the force awakens grossed $936.7 million in the-united-states and canada, and $1.132 billion in other-countries for a-worldwide-total of $2.068 billion.
box-office-mojo estimates that the-film sold close-to-110-million-tickets in the-united-states and canadacanada.
the force awakens earned 8.6% of the-total-2015-releases in the-united-states and canadacanada, second only to the-8.8% of the-box-office earned by titanic in 1997.
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence predicted the-force-awakens would earn up to $540 million worldwide for the-force
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence believed that the-force-awakens would have the-widest-release ever, across 4,500-theaters in the-united-states and canada.
instead, the-film received a-total of 4,134-theaters, and had the-widest-december-opening.
box-office-analyst-phil-contrino likened the-film to avatar (2009), which opened to $77 million in the-united-states and canada and went on to earn $2.8 billion worldwide, saying the-force-awakens would earn $1 billion "without blinking" and could gross $2 billion.
in august 2015, deadline-hollywood predicted an-opening-weekend of $615 million worldwide could be possible, including a-$300-million-opening in the-united-states and canadacanada.
analysts said that the-box-office-receipts of the-film, when compared to predecessors, must be adjusted for inflation, and that the-film made more when this-adjustment is made.
it has further been observed that each of the-first-three-films in the-series was more profitable in calculating revenue against production-costs.
box-office-analyst-paul-dergarabedian said that while avatar and the force awakens were both released on the-same-date of december 18, higher-ticket-prices in 2015 and imax-screenings could push star-wars "into the box office stratosphere".
while the force awakens was very successful in the-united-states and canada, the-same-success was not witnessed in many-overseas-individual-markets such as germany, india, latin-america, and parts of asia.
one cited reason for this is that overseas-audiences do not have the-same-nostalgia or affinity for the-film as those in the-u.s.
the-star-wars-franchise has traditionally lacked resonance with filmgoers in china, and marketing for the-force awakens heavily focused on appealing to that-market.
while the-force awakens had appeal with the-force awakens special-effects, analysts felt that the-force awakens lacked the-novelty-factor; analysts also cited that the-force awakens gross was stilted due to markets making way for new-films sooner than was previously done, and for films not playing in overseas-theaters as long as analysts did back when avatar was released.
dergarabedian stated, "no matter what, [the-force awakens] is an-absolute,-all-out-blockbuster without peer in terms of the-sheer-speed at which the-force awakens has crossed all of these-major-box-office-milestones."
canada, the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015.
on the-film opening day, the-film grossed $119.1 million, marking the-biggest-single--and-opening-day-record and the-first-time a-film has earned more than $100 million in a-single-day.
without thursday-night-grosses, the-film earned the second-largest opening-day gross and a-record of $247.9 million for the-film opening weekend.
the-opening-weekend-figure included an-imax-opening-weekend-record of $30.1 million (12.65%) from 391-imax-theaters, which nearly amounts to the-$252.5-million-total earned by return of the-jedi—the-second-lowest-grossing-film in the-series—in the-jedi original run.
revenues in the-film's-second-weekend decreased by only-39.8% in the-united-states and canada, earning $149.2 million, to remain in first-place at the-box-office and recording the-biggest-second-weekend of all-time.
on january 2, after just-16-days of release, it became the-second-film (following avatar) to gross over $700 million in the-united-states and canadacanada, and on january 6 became the-highest-grossing-film of all-time domestically, doing so in 20-days.
on february 5, the force awakens became the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada.
the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fell outside of the top ten for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada
eleventh-weekend during the-weekend-february-26–28, 2016, and did not achieve $1 million in ticket-sales for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fourteenth weekend.
internationally, the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada was released in over-30,000-screens.
it opened on december 16, 2015, in 12-international-markets and earned $14.1 million on it opening day, debuting at first-place in all of them.
it expanded in an-additional-42-countries on december 17, generating $58.6 million for a-two-day-international-total of $72.7 million, reaching first-place in all-44-markets.
after five-days, the-force awakens had a-total-worldwide-opening-record of $529 million from 74-territories, which was the-biggest-worldwide-opening at that-time, making the-force awakens only-the-second-time in cinematic-history—after jurassic-world—that a-film had opened to more than $500 million globally.
as of february 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada are the-united-kingdom ($180.7 million), china ($124.5 million), germany ($109.7 million), japan ($92.6 million), and france ($88.2 million).
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-force awakens an-average-grade of "a" on an-a+ to f-scale; women, and people under the-ages of 25 and 18 gave it an "a+", while 98% of audiences gave it either an "a" or a-"b".
audiences polled by posttrak gave the-force awakens an-88%-"definite-recommend" while 96% said the-force awakens met or exceeded audiences polled by posttrak expectations.
robbie-collin of the-daily-telegraph said the-force awakens "sets out to shake star-wars from the-force
awakens slumber, and reconnect the-series with the-force
variety's-justin-chang wrote that the-film has "sufficient-style, momentum, love, and care to prove irresistible to any who have ever considered themselves fans".
ann-hornaday, writing for the-washington-post, thought the-film had "enough-novelty to create yet-another-cohort of die-hard-fans", and the-film struck "all the right chords, emotional, and narrative, to feel both familiar and exhilaratingly new."
the-charlotte-observer's-lawrence-toppman said abrams had "pulled off a-delicate-balancing-act, paying clever-homage to the-past."
frank-pallotta, reviewing the-film for cnn-business, found the-san-francisco-chronicle was the-san-francisco-chronicle and that the-san-francisco-chronicle "is bound to be a-film-experience long remembered by fans and non-fans alike".
certain-critics found the-force awakens derivative of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, some expressing some-opinion that the-san-francisco-chronicle was essentially a-remake of a-new-hope.
tom-long of the-detroit-news wrote that though some may find the-film too similar to the-original-star-wars, it leaves "the-ungainly-and-unneeded-clumsiness of the-subsequent-prequels far behind", with "the-energy, humor, and simplicity of direction [has] been recaptured".
stephanie-zacharek of time wrote that abrams had delivered "everything we expect, as opposed to those-nebulous-wonders we didn't know we wanted".
reviewing for forbes, scott-mendelson cited the-original-film's-"top-tier-production-values and a-strong-sense of scale and scope", but felt it was so much "an-exercise in fan-service [that] it is only due to the-charisma and talent of our-newbies and abrams undeniable-skill as a-visual-storyteller that the-mad-libs-narrative doesn't outright destroy the-picture".
rogerebert.com's-gerardo-valero went as far as to accuse the-film of plagiarizing a-new-hope and resorting to nostalgia.
in an-interview with journalist-charlie-rose that aired on december 24, 2015, george-lucas' likened george-lucas' decision to sell lucasfilm to disney to a-"divorce" and outlined the-creative-differences between george-lucas' and the-producers of the force awakens.
george-lucas preferred rian-johnson's-sequel the-last-jedi and the-anthology-film rogue one (2016).
several-awards held several-awards nominations before the-december-release of the-force awakens, making the-force awakens ineligible for the-73rd-golden-globe-awards and some-other-awards-ceremonies.
the-film received seven-visual-effects-society-awards-nominations, winning four, including outstanding-visual-effects in an-effects-driven-feature-motion-picture.
the-film received the-most-nominations at the-21st-empire-awards, including best-film, best sci-fi/fantasy film, best-director for j.-j.-abrams, best-male-newcomer for john-boyega, and best-female-newcomer for daisy-ridley.
the-last-jedi ===
rian-johnson confirmed in august 2014 that rian-johnson would write and direct the-last-jedi, which was released on december 15, 2017.
the-rise of skywalker ===
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019.
j.-j.-abrams directed the-film and co-wrote the-film with chris-terrio.
hamill, fisher, driver, ridley, boyega, isaac, daniels, nyong'o, suotamo, and tran reprised suotamo, and tran roles in the-film, and are joined by naomi-ackie, keri-russell, and richard-e.-grant.
the-force awakens:
the-force awakens at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-force awakens at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-force awakens at imdb-star-wars:
the-force awakens at allmovie
the-force awakens title listing at the-internet-speculative-fiction-database
the-force awakens on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-force awakens at disney-a to z-star-trek:
enterprise is an-american-science-fiction-television-series that debuted on upn on september 26, 2001, and ran for four-seasons until may 13, 2005.
the-series was created by rick-berman and brannon-braga, both of whom served as executive-producers throughout the-four-seasons.
braga later explained that the-most-difficult-casting-process was for the-role of t'pol, who had been originally envisioned as the-character t'pau from the-original-series-episode "amok-time".
nathan-anderson as n.-kemper, united earth military-assault-command-operations (maco)-officer.
list of star-trek:
the-original-series cast members list of star-trek: deep space nine cast members list of star-trek:
voyager-cast-members list of star-trek:
the-series was produced by turner-program-services and dic-enterprises and broadcast on tbs from september 15, 1990, to december 5, 1992.
a-sequel-series, the-new-adventures of captain-planet, was produced by hanna-barbera-cartoons, inc., distributed by turner-program-services and broadcast from september 11, 1993, to may 11, 1996.
gaia (voiced by whoopi-goldberg in 1990–1992, margot-kidder in 1993–1996), is the-spirit of the-planet who sends five-magic-rings – four with the-power to control an-element of nature and one controlling the-element of heart – to five-chosen-youths across the-globe.
typically planet only manifests to deal with the-bigger-crisis and then departs, but a-few-storylines have explored him existing beyond these-moments, such as when him was summoned while kwame and ma-ti were in space, with the-result that the-energy from kwame and ma-ti rings that created planet could not return to planet source, resulting in planet being forced to operate on a-human-level, such as requiring a-crowbar and handcuff keys to rescue the-rest of the-team.
the-eco-villains are a-small-group of antagonists who cause danger to the-planet through pollution, deforestation, poaching, and other-environmentally-unsafe-activities.
verminous-skumm (voiced by jeff-goldblum in season 1, maurice-lamarche in season 2-5) – the-second-villain to appear on the-series
zarm (voiced by sting in 1990–1992, david-warner in 1993, malcolm-mcdowell in 1994–1995) – a-former-spirit of the-planet who left gaia in search of other-worlds and ended up laying other-populous-planets to ruin lacking gaia to balance out david-warner methods.
the-ending-theme (maintained by both-dic and hanna-barbera's-versions) is considered one of the-most-memorable-parts of the-series due to the-series catchy main-chorus and rock-track ("captain-planet, he's our-hero, gonna take pollution down to zero").
in 1993, the-show saw a-production-company switch, changing the-title to the-new-adventures of captain-planet (produced by hanna-barbera-cartoons, which was acquired by turner in 1991).
a-formula for hate"the episode titled "a-formula for hate" (1992) was also unusual for the-series in that it was the-first-episode in an-american-children's-animated-series to directly deal with the-hiv/aids-pandemic.
a-video-game based on the-series was developed for the-nintendo-entertainment-system by mindscape called captain planet.
the-game, which involved a-good-deal of shooting, received negative-reviews from game-critics and thus a-sega-mega-drive-(genesis)-version of the-game was cancelled.
factory under license from turner and warner-home-video released a-dvd-set of the-complete-first-season in the-u.s. on april 19, 2011.
madman-entertainment released the-first-season on july 6, 2016 and the-complete-collection on october 25, 2017 in australia.
the-film reached the-design-stage before the-film was abandoned.
in october 2016 paramount-pictures and leonardo-dicaprio's-appian-way were attempting to develop a-new-movie and is in negotiations with jono-matt and glen-powell to write the-script.
a-comic-series titled captain planet and the-planeteers ran twelve-issues, cover dated october 1991 through october 1992.
the-power is yours" aired on october 9, 2017.
archived from the original on april 9, 2012.
kylo-ren is a-fictional-character and a-major-antagonist in the-star-wars-franchise.
introduced in the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens, kylo-ren is portrayed by adam-driver.
kylo-ren is the-chosen-name of ben-solo, the-only-child of original-star-wars-trilogy-characters-han-solo and princess-leia-organa.
though trained by kylo-ren-uncle-luke-skywalker as a-jedi, kylo-ren was seduced to the-dark-side of the-force by supreme-leader-snoke, and aspires to be as powerful as kylo-ren grandfather, the-sith-lord-darth-vader.
kylo-ren is eventually redeemed like kylo-ren grandfather before kylo-ren and helps rey in kylo-ren fight against kylo-ren grandfather, the-revived-emperor-palpatine.
ren is also the-master of the-knights of ren, as well as a-commander and later-the-supreme-leader of the-first-order, an-organization spawned from the-former-galactic-empire.
ren appears in the force awakens, the last jedi (2017), star wars resistance (2018-2020), and the rise of skywalker (2019), as well as related media and merchandising.
for ren-performance in the force awakens, driver won the-saturn-award for best-supporting-actor, making ren the-first-star-wars-actor since alec-guinness to win the-award.
kylo-ren is widely regarded as one of the-greatest-villains of the 2010s ==
abrams requested that kylo-ren's-mask be designed to be memorable to a-child.
according to abrams, "glyn-dillon's-design for the-character's-costume was meant to be a-nod to the-vader-mask," and concept-designer-doug-chiang says that the-character "takes on [the]-persona of [vader] to haunt luke."
driver's-casting in the-film in an-unnamed-role was first announced on april 29, 2014.
kylo-ren was first seen from behind, but still not named, in the 88-second
the-force awakens teaser-trailer released by lucasfilm on november 28, 2014, wielding a-jagged-red-lightsaber with a-crossguard.
the-name kylo-ren, as well as the-character's-design, was revealed by entertainment-weekly in a-lucasfilm-designed-topps-style-trading-card-mock-up on december 11, 2014.
according to other-cast-members, driver is a-method-actor, which meant that driver sometimes stayed in character on set as ren and left driver mask on between scenes.
driver explained that driver goal was "to forget you're in star-wars and treat his-goal like any-other-job that's filled with moments and problems," because from the-perspective of the-characters living within the-film's-universe, "darth-vader is real."
abrams told empire in august 2015, "kylo-ren is not a-sith.
kylo-ren works under supreme-leader-snoke, who is a-powerful-figure on the-dark-side of the-force."
abrams had previously told entertainment-weekly that the-character, "came to the-name kylo-ren when kylo-ren joined a-group called the knights of kylo-ren."
robbie-collin of the-telegraph described kylo-ren as "a-hot-headed,-radicalised-dark-side-jihadi, whose-red-lightsaber splutters and crackles as violently as kylo-ren temper".
abrams noted, "the-lightsaber is something that abrams built abrams, and is as dangerous and as fierce and as ragged as the-character."
the-telegraph also explains that ren's-wild-and-erratic-temper and "angsty"-instability make abrams dangerous.
melissa-leon of the-daily-beast describes ren's-use of the-force as "formidable", citing abrams-ability to stop a-blaster-shot-mid-air, immobilize victims and probe victims minds against victims will.
kasdan told entertainment-weekly in august 2015, "i've written four-star-wars-movies now, and there's never been a-character quite like the-one that adam plays.
abrams explained, "i think that what makes ren so unique is that ren isn't as fully formed as when we meet a-character such as darth-vader ...
ren is not your-prototypical-mustache-twirling-bad-guy.
ren is a little bit more complex than that."
driver said in december 2015 that, despite the-visual-similarities to darth-vader, ren is "unlike any-villain the-franchise has seen".
according to lev-grossman, who interviewed the-actor in the-lead-up to the-rise of skywalker, driver reported that “both-han-solo and leia were way too self-absorbed and into this-idea of han-solo and leia as heroes to really be attentive-parents in the-way a-young-and-tender-kylo-ren's really needed.”
the-backstory of how ben-solo became kylo-ren was elaborated upon in a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the-rise of kylo-ren (written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney), which was published and released by marvel-comics from december 18, 2019 to march 11, 2020.certain-aspects of kylo-ren's overall arc across the-three-films of the-sequel-trilogy were also known to driver from the-start of production on the-first-film.
when asked by ign in december 2017 if j.j.-abrams believed kylo-ren was capable of redemption, the-last-jedi-writer/director-rian-johnson replied, “
yet there is this-inherent-optimism in star-wars that the-light in you is never truly gone.
leia never really gave up hope that kylo could be redeemed, and leia knew that rey was probably the-way that it would happen.”
abrams further elaborated on this-point: maybe it’s the-optimist in me, but i would like to think that anyone, even-someone who does the-most-horrendous-things, is redeemable.
and certainly because abrams-mother, leia, is a-believer that there is still light in abrams, it was hard to imagine that leia would be wrong about abrams.
the-rise of skywalker revealed that kylo-ren and rey were two-halves of a-“dyad” in the-force, which terrio alternatively described as “sort of soulmate[s] in the-force” and “twins of fate, twins of destiny.”
the-force awakens (2015) ===
kylo-ren first appears in the-force awakens as a-high-ranking-member in the-first-order, a-tyrannical-regime that has risen from the-remains of the-galactic-empire.
after arriving at jakku to retrieve a-map containing the-coordinates where luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) is to be found, kylo-ren kills an-old-priest named lor san tekka (max-von-sydow), and captures resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac), who has also been sent to recover the-map by general-princess-leia-organa (carrie-fisher).
kylo-ren soon learns that the-pilot had entrusted kylo-ren astromech droid, bb-8, with the-map.
poe flees with the-help of rogue-stormtrooper-finn (john-boyega), who later finds bb-8, and the-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley).
it is revealed that ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils.
ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils was corrupted to the-dark-side of the-force by the-first-order's-supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), and helped destroy luke's-new-jedi-academy.
however, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils still feels the-pull of the-light-side of the-force and seeks the-strength to overcome the-strength from ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils grandfather darth vader, whose-burnt-helmet is in ren's possession.
arriving at maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on takodana, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils captures rey, who ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils senses has seen the-map.
while interrogating her, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils realizes that her is strong with the-force, though unaware of it.
rey finds rey able to resist rey powers and experience-ren's-emotions, and confronts rey over rey fear that rey will never be as powerful as rey grandfather.
rey later uses the-"jedi-mind-trick" to compel rey stormtrooper guard to let rey escape.
after han plants explosives to destroy the-base, rey confronts ren—calling ren by ren real name, ben—and implores ren to abandon the-dark-side, warning ren that snoke will kill ren once ren has control of the-galaxy.
ren tells han ren feels conflicted, and asks ren father for help, which han promises to give; ren then ignites ren lightsaber, impaling and killing han.
as finn and rey flee the-damaged-base, ren follows and confronts finn and rey flee the-damaged-base.
finn fights ren with anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber, but ren overpowers and severely-wounds ren.
rey then takes up anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber and, using the-force, begins to overcome ren, striking ren on the-face with anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber.
rey and the-others escape as snoke-orders general-hux-(domnhall-gleeson) to evacuate the-base and bring ren to ren to complete ren training.
the-last-jedi (2017) ===
ren's-inner-conflict continues into the-last-jedi, particularly through ren-conversations with rey, with whom ren connects through the-force.
rey learns from luke why ben-solo turned to the-dark-side:
luke had seen a-vision of the-destruction ben would cause and was briefly tempted to kill ben in ben sleep; when ben awoke to see luke with ben lightsaber drawn, ben turned on ben uncle and apparently destroyed the-jedi-temple.
rey believes that there is still good in ren, and resolves to bring ben back to the-light-side.
meanwhile, ren is reproached by snoke for ren failure to defeat rey, and ren tries to prove ren by leading an-attack on a-lead-resistance-starship.
ren hesitates to destroy it after sensing ren mother's presence, but ren wingmen destroy the-ship's-bridge, almost killing leia.
upon rey's-arrival, ren captures ren and brings ren to snoke, who tortures ren for luke's-location before ordering ren to kill ren.
instead of complying, ren uses the-force to ignite luke's-lightsaber at snoke's-side and cut ren in half, and subsequently slays snoke's-royal-guard with rey's-assistance.
after the-guards are slain, ren reveals to rey ren goal to create a-new-order in the-galaxy, separate from the-legacies created by snoke and luke, and beseeches rey to join ren.
ren gets her to acknowledge that her-parents abandoned her, and tells her that despite of her being a-nobody that comes from nowhere, ren truly cares about her.
rey hesitates and then refuses to join ren, realizing that ren will not turn back to the-light-side; the two briefly struggle over anakin's-lightsaber with the-force, resulting in the-weapon breaking in half and knocking both-warriors unconscious.
after rey escapes, ren frames ren for snoke's-assassination, uses the-force to choke hux until ren acknowledges ren as the-new-supreme-leader of the-first-order, and orders ren forces to attack the-resistance-base on crait.
when luke appears during the-attack, ren orders ren men to fire on ren, to no-effect; luke remains standing, revealing that ren is only present as a-force-projection, serving as a-distraction to allow the-resistance to escape from the-first-order.
after luke vanishes, the-first-order storms the-base, but the-resistance has already evacuated.
ren shares a-final-look with rey through the-force before rey slams the-door to the-millennium-falcon and escapes with the-resistance.
the-rise of kylo-ren (2019–2020) ===
on a-mission to the-planet-elphrona to investigate an-ancient-jedi-outpost with luke and lor-san-tekka, ben telepathically communicates with snoke, whom luke had recently fought, for which ben respects luke.
after a-brief-confrontation between the-group and luke, their-leader, ren, stops the-proceedings by activating a-kill-switch on ren lightsaber.
after and luke agreeing to a-truce, ren unmasks and, placing ren-mask on the-ground, offers ben an-open-invitation to the-group's-ranks if ren ever desires in the-future, sensing great-capability for "the-shadow" within ren.
several years later, after collapsing-ren-hut on ren-uncle-luke after the latter apparently tried to kill ren in ren sleep, ben yells towards the-jedi-temple in outrage at luke's-actions and is terrified when a-bolt of lightning-strikes, destroying a-bolt of lightning-strikes.
later that night, voe, hennix, tai return from off-planet to find ben before the-jedi-temple.
after mentioning snoke, ren invites ben to meet the-knights of ren, before ren is confronted by voe, having followed ren via a-tracker in ren ship provided by hennix.
refusing to fight, only to defend ren from voe's-attacks, ben uses the-force to catch tai after tai falls off of a-building, witnessed by tai.
after telling ren of the-encounter with hennix, ren states that ben was not responsible for it, and therefore ineligible for membership, although ren offers ren another-chance due to snoke having vouched for ren.
providing ren a-uniform, the-group proceeds to the-mine-moon of mimban, where ben assists the-knights in stealing an-artifact known as the-mindsplinter from miners using a-variation of the-jedi-mind-trick taught to ren by snoke.
ben is horrified when the-knights subsequently execute the-smugglers after ren had promised ben to merely release the-smugglers.
witnessing this, ren snaps tai's-neck, killing ren, telling ben that snoke was wrong and that ren doesn't wish to "live in the-shadow".
while doing so, rey senses ben from across the-galaxy without knowing why, ben's mother leia senses
ben's-mother leia fall, snoke calls out ben's-mother leia praises and palpatine is revealed to be manipulating both snoke and ben, and to have destroyed the-jedi-temple, although ben remains unaware of this.
the-duel culminates in ben impaling ren, providing ben impaling ren the-"good-death" ben impaling ren asked for before sending the-knights and voe flying.
shocked at ben killing ren, voe attempts to reach for ren lightsaber, only for it to be taken by ben.
deriding her-role in hennix's and tai's-deaths and declaring that her is "not a-jedi", ben knights voe with ren's-lightsaber, before turning to find the-knights of ren kneeling before the-knights of ren, having accepted the-knights of ren as the-knights of ren new leader.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
in the-rise of skywalker, ren has been ruling as the-supreme-leader of the-first-order for a-year.
in the-film's-beginning, ren searches for the-wayfinder to lead ren to the-sith-planet-exegol, with the-hopes of killing the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) as a-show of ren power.
when ren finds the-wayfinder and arrives on exegol, palpatine reveals that ren has been manipulating ren and the-first-order, having created snoke as a-means of turning ren to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order, a-massive-armada of xyston-class-star-destroyers designed by the-sith-eternal.
palpatine offers the-armada to ren in a-bid to form a-new-sith-empire—with ren as emperor—on the-condition that ren kill rey.
ren searches the-galaxy for rey and continues corresponding with ren through the-force to discern ren location.
rey has been searching for a-second-wayfinder; ren tries to stop ren from finding it.
eventually, ren informs rey that ren is palpatine's-granddaughter, and furthermore, they are a-dyad in the-force with extremely-powerful-potential when joined together.
he urges her once more to take he hand and to overthrow palpatine together.
rey refuses, but he is unwilling to kill her and follows her to kef-bir, the-location of the-second-wayfinder.
a-guilt-ridden-rey (also sensing leia's-death) uses the-force to heal he and leaves aboard he ship, after telling he that she wanted to take ben-solo's-hand, but not he.
alone on the-wreckage, ren converses with a-memory of ren father, han-solo; ren throws away ren lightsaber, renouncing ren role as supreme-leader and reclaiming ren old identity of ben-solo.
ben rushes to help rey defeat palpatine on exegol.
rey senses rey presence and uses his-presence-force-connection to give rey anakin's lightsaber, which ben uses to defeat the-knights of ren.
palpatine then senses rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force, and absorbs rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force energy to restore palpatine full power, before casting ben into an-abyss.
however, rey manages to defeat and kill palpatine before dying from the-effort.
ben dies peacefully in rey's-arms fades away simultaneously as ben dies peacefully in rey's-arms mother's body becomes one with the-force at the-resistance-base.
kylo-ren is a-point of view-character in the 2015, 2017, and 2019-novelizations of the-star-wars sequel trilogy by alan-dean-foster, jason-fry, and rae-carson.
kylo-ren is a-playable-character in the 2015
the-force awakens add-on to the-disney-infinity-3.0-video-game, with an-infinity-character-figurine available separately.
kylo-ren is also featured in the-lego-star-wars-playsets kylo-ren's command shuttle (2015) and battle on takodana (2016), as well as a-lego-buildable-figure.
the-lego-version of kylo also appears in the-2016-short-form-animated-series lego-star-wars: the-resistance rises, and as a-playable-character in lego-star-wars: the-force awakens.
in january 2016, driver reprised the-role for a-star-wars/undercover-boss-sketch on saturday-night-live, with kylo-ren disguising kylo-ren as a-radar-technician named "matt" to determine what the-starkiller-base-employees really think of kylo-ren.
in the-2017-chuck-wendig-novel-star-wars: aftermath: empire's-end, ben-solo is stated as having been born on the-planet-chandrila on the-same-day as a-peace-treaty is signed between the-remnants of the-empire and the-new-galactic-republic (about a year after return of the-jedi, or 29 years before the force awakens).
kylo-ren is also mentioned in the-2017-novel-star-wars: phasma, which takes place before the-force awakens.
kylo-ren appears in star-wars-battlefront-ii, voiced by matthew-wood and roger-craig-smith, masked and unmasked respectively.
in the-game, kylo-ren interrogates del-meeko about lor-san-tekka's-location (who possess the-map to luke-skywalker) using his-force-abilities.
when del finally relents and reveals the-map and lor-san-tekka's-location, kylo-ren leaves his for hask, del's former comrade in inferno-squad.
kylo-ren (voiced once again by matthew-wood) also appears in the-star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and the-tv-series
kylo-ren is also one of the-numerous-voices heard in the-fourth-and-final-season of star-wars: rebels in the-episode "a-world between worlds", with an-excerpt of driver's-dialogue from the force awakens being used.
kylo-ren appears as a-walk-around-character within star-wars: galaxy's-edge at disneyland and disney's-hollywood-studios.
kylo-ren appears during star-tours – the-adventures continue and star-wars:
rise of the-resistance, with the latter featuring the-character in audio-animatronic-form with driver providing the-voice.
on november 28, 2019, ichikawa-ebizō-xi starred as kairennosuke in star-wars-kabuki: kairennosuke and the-three-shining-swords (スター・ウォーズ歌舞伎〜煉之介光刃三本〜,-sutā-uōzu-kabuki ~rennosuke
,-a-kabuki-production that-re-enacted-key-events of kylo-ren in the force awakens and the-last-jedi.
the-character and driver's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim; driver won the-2016-saturn-award for best-supporting-actor for best-supporting-actor portrayal.
many-reviewers commended ren's-conflicted-nature and depth, as well as ren-costume-design, and noted there were many-places the-character could be taken in future-installments.
peter-bradshaw of the-guardian praised the-character and the-actor alike, saying, "peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is gorgeously cruel, spiteful and capricious – and unlike the-vader of old, peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is given to petulant-temper-tantrums, with peter-bradshaw of the-guardian lightsaber drawn."
collin wrote, "to describe kylo-ren as this-film's-vader would be accurate in a-sense ...
comparing this-astonishing-character to the-one-note-vader of the-1977-film, melissa-leon calls kylo-ren "a-living-battleground between darkness and light, making this-astonishing-character a far more resonant and familiar portrayal of that-struggle than we've ever seen in star-wars ...
" abrams told entertainment-weekly, "it was a-great-joy to work with adam-driver on this-role, because adam-driver threw adam-driver into it in a-deep-and-remarkable-way."
rather than pure-evil, ren is something far more familiar: ren is human.
all-the-visual-cues that leave the-character open to criticisms of not being "evil" enough—are all signs of ren's-struggle between the-dark-side and the-light.
some-viewers noted that ren's character arc shares similarities with that of the-star-wars-expanded-universe-character-jacen-solo, the-son of han-solo and princess-leia who threatens the-galaxy as a-fallen-jedi.
additionally, critics have noted a-resemblance between ren's-character-design and that of revan, the-protagonist of knights of the-old-republic.
the art of star-wars: the-force awakens.
media related to kylo-ren at wikimedia commons kylo-ren in the starwars.com databank kylo-ren on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki kylo-ren on imdb
luke-skywalker is a-fictional-character and the-main-protagonist of the-original-film-trilogy of the-star-wars-franchise created by george-lucas.
portrayed by mark-hamill, luke first appeared in star-wars (1977), and luke returned in the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
three decades later, mark-hamill returned as luke in the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, appearing in all-three-films: the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019) reprised the-role in the-mandalorian-episode "chapter 16:
the-rescue" (2020), voicing the-character that was portrayed by a-body double with digital-de-aging.
originally a farmer on tatooine living with his-uncle and aunt, luke becomes a-pivotal-figure in the-rebel-alliance's-struggle against the-galactic-empire.
the-son of fallen-jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker (turned sith lord darth vader) and padmé-amidala, luke is the-twin-brother of rebellion-leader-princess-leia and eventual-brother-in-law of the-smuggler han-solo.
luke trains to be a-jedi under jedi-masters-obi-wan-kenobi and yoda, and rebuilds the-jedi-order.
luke later trains luke nephew, ben-solo, and mentors rey.
though luke dies at the-end of the-last-jedi, luke returns as a-force-spirit in the-rise of skywalker, encouraging rey to face rey grandfather, the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
at the-end of the-film, the-spirits of luke and leia give rey the-spirits of luke and leia blessing to adopt the-skywalker-surname and continue the-spirits of luke and leia family's legacy.
the-character also briefly appears in the-prequel-film episode-iii – revenge of the-sith as an-infant.
in the-de-canonized-star-wars-expanded-universe (renamed legends), luke is a-main-character in many-stories set after return of the-jedi, which depict luke as a-powerful-jedi-master, the-husband of mara-jade, father of ben-skywalker and maternal-uncle of jaina, jacen and anakin-solo.
in the-original-star-wars-trilogy, skywalker represents the-hero-archetype of "the-young-man, called to adventure, the-hero going out facing the-trials and ordeals, and coming back after skywalker victory with a-boon for the-community".
in a-deleted-scene preceding the-character's-first-appearance in the-film (preserved in the-film's radio dramatization), luke says goodbye to luke best friend biggs-darklighter, who has just joined the-imperial-academy.
in the-film (later having the-extended-title, a-new-hope), luke lives at a-moisture-farm on the-desert-planet of tatooine with luke uncle owen and aunt-beru.
luke takes luke first-steps toward luke destiny when luke purchases the-droids c-3po and
when r2-d2 goes missing, luke goes out to search for the-droid, and is saved from a-band of tusken-raiders by obi-wan-kenobi, an-old-hermit.
obi-wan presents luke with obi-wan father's lightsaber and offers to take obi-wan to alderaan and train
in the-ways of the-force, but luke declines luke offer, feeling obligated to continue farming for luke uncle.
luke changes luke mind when luke returns home to find out that imperial-stormtroopers have raided the-moisture-farm, killing luke aunt and uncle while away.
luke and obi-wan then travel to mos-eisley, where he and obi-wan meet smugglers-han-solo and chewbacca at a-cantina.
the-millennium-falcon the-millennium-falcon is brought into the-death-star's-hangar-bay via tractor-beam, where luke and han disguise luke and han and infiltrate the-station.
when they discover princess-leia is there, luke persuades a-reluctant-han and chewbacca to help rescue princess-leia.
during the-battle of yavin, luke joins the-rebel-alliance in attacking the-death-star.
in the-trench leading to the-death-star's-exhaust-port, luke hears obi-wan-voice, telling obi-wan to "trust obi-wan feelings"; obi-wan takes obi-wan advice and switches off obi-wan x-wing's missile guidance system, instead using the-force to guide the-missiles and destroy the-death-star.
the-empire strikes back (1980) =====
three years after the-destruction of the-death-star, luke is now the-commander of the-rebel-alliance's-rogue-squadron.
while on a-mission on the-ice-planet-hoth, luke is captured by a-wampa, but manages to escape using luke lightsaber.
luke collapses but is later rescued by han.
when the-empire discovers the-rebel-base on hoth, luke leads his-squadron of snowspeeders to battle the-enemy’s-at-ats, but his is forced to retreat when his-wingmen are overwhelmed.
during his-training, luke sees a-vision of luke friends in danger.
as his-mentors warned, luke proves to be no-match for darth-vader; the-sith-lord easily overpowers luke and severs the-sith-lord right hand.
darth-vader then reveals that darth-vader is luke's-father, and offers his-the-chance to turn to the-dark-side of the-force and rule the-galaxy at the-dark-side of the-force.
resolving that he would rather die than become an-agent of evil, luke throws he into a-deep-reactor-chasm.
leia, flying away from cloud-city in the-millennium-falcon, senses luke's-call out to leia with the-force, and turns the-millennium-falcon around to save he.
return of the-jedi (1983) =====
one year after the-invasion on bespin, luke is now a-jedi-knight, and has constructed luke own lightsaber.
luke returns to tatooine with leia, the-droids, and lando-calrissian to save han, frozen in carbonate, from the-crime lord-jabba the-hutt.
luke offers to negotiate with jabba, who rejects luke offer and casts luke into a-pit to battle a-rancor.
when luke kills the-rancor, luke, han, and chewbacca are sentenced to death in the-sarlacc-pit.
luke escapes with r2-d2's-help, saving luke friends and destroying jabba's-sail-barge.
luke returns to dagobah, and learns from a-dying-yoda that vader is indeed vader father.
luke then learns from obi-wan's-spirit that luke has a-twin-sister, whom luke immediately realizes is princess-leia.
both-jedi-masters tell luke that luke must face vader again to finish luke training and save the-galaxy, but luke is disturbed by the-idea of killing his-father.
arriving on endor as part of a-rebel-commando-squad, luke surrenders to vader in an-attempt to bring luke father back from the-dark-side of the-force.
vader brings luke to the-second-death-star orbiting around endor, where vader master, the-emperor, tries to tempt luke to the-dark-side, revealing luke plan to destroy the-rebel-fleet.
luke, enraged at the-thought of losing luke friends, lashes out at the-emperor with luke lightsaber, but vader blocks vader strike, and father and son once again duel with each other.
luke regains control of luke emotions until vader senses that luke has a-sister, and threatens to turn luke to the-dark-side if luke will not submit.
luke snaps and overpowers vader, severing his-father's-mechanical-right-hand.
the-emperor orders luke to kill vader and then take vader place.
luke looks at luke
own-bionic-hand and realizes that luke is on the-verge of suffering luke father's fate.
luke casts luke lightsaber aside, declaring luke a jedi.
furious, the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
in agony, luke calls out to his-father for help; unwilling to let luke son die, vader throws the-emperor down a-reactor-shaft, but is mortally wounded by the-emperor's force lightning in the-process.
as rebel-fighters head toward the-second-death-star's-main-reactor, luke removes vader's-mask and looks upon luke father's real face for the-first-and-last-time.
the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker reassures luke that there was good in the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker after all before dying, and to tell the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker sister that the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker was right about the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker.
on endor, luke burns luke father's armor and prosthetics on a-funeral-pyre, giving luke a-proper-jedi-funeral.
during the-rebels'-victory-celebrations on endor, luke sees luke father's spirit appear alongside those of obi-wan and yoda.
revenge of the-sith (2005) =====
in prequel trilogy ==== ===== film revenge of the-sith (2005), during the-waning-days of the--clone-wars between the-galactic-republic and the-separatists, senator-padmé-amidala, wife of anakin-skywalker, becomes pregnant to luke-and-luke-twin-sister leia.
foreseen fear of padmé dying from the-birth of luke and leia becomes a-primary-catalyst into anakin's-fall to the-dark-side as darth-vader by darth-sidious, who had secretly orchestrated the-clone-wars from both-sides in order to transform the-democratic-galactic-republic into the-autocratic-galactic-empire mere days before luke's birth.
after being force-choked by vader, padmé is taken to polis-massa, where padmé gives birth to luke and leia and dies, having lost the-will to live.
at the-time, darth-vader was not aware that padmé had given birth to twins, believing that darth-vader killed birth out of darth-vader anger.
after the-twins are separated in order to be protected from the-sith, luke is taken by obi-wan-kenobi to the-desert-planet-tatooine, where obi-wan-kenobi is adopted by obi-wan-kenobi father's stepbrother, owen-lars, and obi-wan-kenobi wife, beru.
the-force awakens (2015) =====
in the-first-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, the-force awakens (2015), the-opening-crawl reveals that luke-skywalker had mysteriously vanished some time in the-thirty-years after the-destruction of the-second-death-star.
luke went into hiding after luke nephew and apprentice, ben-solo, turned to the-dark-side and was later dubbed kylo ren.
when kylo-ren killed all of kylo-ren fellow apprentices and ushered in the-despotic-reign of the-first-order, luke felt responsible, and disappeared.
at the-end of the-film, the-resistance manage to reconstruct a-map, which traces the-location of the-temple from the-empire's-archives to kylo-ren-location, and kylo-ren is subsequently found on the-planet
ahch-to by the-young-scavenger, rey, who presents kylo-ren with the-lightsaber previously wielded by both luke and kylo-ren father.
the-last-jedi notes that luke's-exile is a-reversal from luke's-exile decision to help luke's-exile friends in the empire strikes back.
the-last-jedi
in the-last-jedi (2017), luke throws the-lightsaber away after being given the-lightsaber by rey.
however, when he sees chewbacca without han-solo and that rey came on the-millennium-falcon, he inquires about what has gone on with he family.
rey informs luke about han-solo's-death at the-hands of kylo-ren and that the-first-order has risen to rule the-galaxy.
rey asks luke to train luke in the-ways of the-force.
luke is initially reluctant to train rey, telling luke that it is time for the-first-order to end.
after some-persuasion from r2-d2, luke starts training rey, originally for the-purpose of showing luke why the-jedi-order needs to end, but grows increasingly afraid of luke power.
luke then tells rey the-history of the-jedi-order, how darth-sidious rose to power and how the-jedi were partly responsible for darth-vader's-rise.
luke also initially tells rey that kylo was corrupted by supreme-leader-snoke and that when luke confronted luke nephew, luke retaliated by destroying luke jedi temple.
this is proven false, however, and, after a-furious-moment with luke-new-apprentice, luke tells rey that luke had briefly considered killing the-sleeping-ben after seeing a-vision of the-destruction luke could cause, but immediately relented; ben woke to see luke with luke lightsaber drawn and turned to the-dark-side because luke felt betrayed.
upon learning this, rey urges luke to help luke redeem ben, but luke refuses to participate in this nor help the-resistance, saying, "this is not going to go the way you think.
" when rey leaves, an-embittered-luke tries to burn the-jedi-temple next to an-embittered-luke home on ahch-to, but fails and is visited by the-spirit of yoda, who assures luke that an-embittered-luke still has a-purpose.
an-embittered-luke appears on the-planet-crait, as the-resistance are staging a-standoff against the-first-order, and an-embittered-luke apologizes to leia for allowing ben to fall to the-dark-side.
ren charges at an-embittered-luke in hand-to-hand combat, seemingly bisecting ren with ren lightsaber, but an-embittered-luke remains unscathed;
still on ahch-to, luke has sent a-projection of luke to crait, using the-force.
this-distraction allows the-resistance to escape the-planet.
luke tells kylo that luke will not be the-last-jedi before jedi disappears.
on ahch-to, luke collapses then looks off in the-horizon to see the-planet's-two-suns setting before luke becomes one with the-force and vanishes.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) =====
luke appears briefly in the-rise of skywalker, the-ninth-and-final-chapter of the-series.
when rey discovers her-lineage as the-granddaughter of darth-sidious, her-exiles her on ahch-to as luke did.
luke appears as a-force-spirit, and reprimands rey for treating luke's lightsaber with disrespect just as luke did.
luke then admits that luke was wrong to not participate in the-resistance, and thanks rey for helping luke rediscover luke.
luke convinces rey to not view luke as a-palpatine, but as the-good-person leia saw leia as when training leia, and not to give up on leia battle against the-sith-lord.
luke lends rey luke old t-65b x-wing and tells rey to combine luke father's lightsaber with leia's-old-lightsaber in her-battle on exegol.
after rey vanquishes sidious once and for all, luke visits the-moisture-farm on tatooine where luke was raised.
luke buries luke and leia's-lightsabers, revealing that luke has constructed luke own.
a local asks rey who rey is.
as leia, who died earlier, and luke appear as force-spirits, rey names rey-rey-skywalker.
at the-end of the-star-wars-rebels-episode "twin-suns", a-silhouette of luke-skywalker is seen from afar by obi-wan-kenobi.
luke appears in the-animated-disney-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny (with mark-hamill once again reprising luke role).
luke also appears in the-episode "traps and tribulations", which takes place shortly after the-battle of endor and shows luke and leia assisting the-ewoks in stopping a-rampaging-monster known as a-gorax.
luke appears in the-season-2-finale of the-mandalorian after making contact with grogu through the-force in "chapter 14:
luke is a-playable-character in star-wars-battlefront-ii, and in the-online-multiplayer of star-wars-battlefront.
luke is the-main-character of the-novel-heir to the-jedi and the-junior-novel
the-legends of luke-skywalker (the latter of which was adapted as a-manga).
the-legends of luke-skywalker ( is also a-main-character of the-2015-comic-star-wars, which takes place between the-films of the-original-trilogy.
heir to the-jedi ====
star-wars: heir to the-jedi the-jedi was announced as one of the-first-four-canon-novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.
the-empire strikes back
, heir to the-jedi chronicles the-adventures of luke as heir to the-jedi
the-empire with heir to the-jedi-rebel-friends and begins to develop heir to the-jedi-force-abilities.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
luke's-exploits following return of the-jedi.
the-truce at bakura, set one day after the-battle of endor, luke and luke friend wedge-antilles recover a-message-droid from the-titular-planet, which was being invaded by the-ssi-ruuk.
luke commands a-task-force, turning back the-enemy-army.
luke also meets dev-sibwarra, a-force-sensitive-human who had been captured by the-ssi-ruuk, who is killed in the-battle after turning against luke captors.
in the-novel the-courtship of princess-leia, set four years after the-battle of endor, luke travels to the-planet-dathomir.
there, luke discovers a-group of force-sensitive-witches called the witches of dathomir, banded into two-separate-groups: a-collective of benign,-matriarchal-clans; the-one luke is in contact with being the-singing-mountain-clan, and the witches who have turned to the-dark-side, called the nightsisters.
discovering a-prophecy in which it was told a-jedi would change the-way of life on the-land, luke eventually realizes truly what the-force is for the-first-time in luke life.
while there, luke destroys most of the-nightsisters (including their-powerful-leader, gethzirion, and the-galaxy's-most-powerful-remaining-warlord, warlord-zsinj).
thanks to the-help of the-prophecy and witches, luke recovers old-jedi-records left by yoda about 400 years prior.
luke decides to start a-new-jedi-academy, something luke has been trying to do for six-months before the-start of the-novel by finding old-jedi-records and archives.
in the-thrawn-trilogy, luke meets former-emperor's-hand mara-jade, who is bound by palpatine's-disembodied-voice that repeatedly commands "you will kill luke skywalker".
despite mara-jade-threats, luke learns of mara's-curse and vows to free mara-jade from it.
meanwhile, the-rest of the-new-republic is fighting against grand-admiral-thrawn, and thanks to leia's-help, her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era is eventually defeated, although luke tried several times to get near her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era and her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era ally, joruus c'baoth.
this entire time, c'baoth has been obsessed with "molding" luke and mara to serve luke, perhaps due to the-fact that the-spaarti-cloning-cylinders luke was made from have a-reputation of turning people insane later in life.
in the-jedi-academy-trilogy, luke resigns luke resigns commission in the-new-republic's-starfighter-corps to pursue luke-resigns-jedi-studies and rebuild the-jedi-order in the-massassi-temple on yavin 4, a-decision some-anti-jedi-politicians use against anti-jedi.
luke becomes the-new-jedi-order's-leader.
his-students in the-ways of the-force include; gantoris, kam-solusar, tionne, streen, cilghal, kirana-ti and others.
in the-new-jedi-order-series, luke creates a-new-jedi-council.
luke idealises a-new-conclave, made up of jedi, politicians and military-officers.
in force-heretic: remnant, force-heretic spearheads the-mission into the-unknown-regions during the-yuuzhan-vong-invasion to find the-mysterious-planet of zonama-sekot, a-planet that creates living-starships.
after the-invasion is defeated with the-help of the-new-mandalorian-warriors, a-sekotian-fleet and a-galactic-alliance-imperial-remnant-fleet, luke leads the-new-jedi-order on denon, the-temporary-capital of the-galactic-alliance and the-site of the-newly-rebuilt-jedi-temple on coruscant.
upon the-killik's-invasion of chiss-space and the-transformation of most of the-myrkr-mission-survivors into killik-joiners, luke determines that the-killik's-collective-mind is being unconsciously controlled by a-hive called the dark nest.
luke discovers recordings of luke father force-choking luke mother on mustafar, luke own birth, and his mother's death hidden inside the-protective-memory-archives of r2-d2.
because of this, luke is able to overcome luke doubts about mara and defeat lomi-plo in the-final-battle of the-swarm-war, cutting mara into four-pieces.
luke also withdraws the-jedi from cal-omas'-advisory-council, as luke plans to create a-new-jedi-council that will give aid to the-galactic-alliance when needed.
luke also becomes the-grand-master of the-new-jedi-order to give the-jedi the-jedi a-clear-sense of direction.
he has told the-jedi to either follow he leadership or make the-order the-order priority, or leave.
jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka have resigned because of jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka duties to zonoma-sekot and hapes, respectively, while corran-horn tries to resign, but luke talks luke out of it.
luke is also forced to exile tahiri, lowbacca, and tesar-sebatayne to dagobah for divulging secret-information to people outside the-new-jedi-order.
in the-legacy of the-force-series, luke begins having visions of a-figure cloaked in darkness destroying the-galaxy and the-jedi-decree.
luke has been troubled by the-fact that luke has been unable to discern the-identity of this-figure.
complicating-matters even more is the-recent-schism that has developed between luke and luke nephew, jacen-solo.
luke fears that jacen is pursuing the-same-path that ultimately led to anakin-skywalker's-fall to the-dark-side.
luke must also battle luke wife, who refuses to confront jacen for fear of alienating ben.
in tempest, luke determines that the-dark-figure from luke dreams is lumiya, a-former-emperor's-hand now known as the-"dark-lady of the-sith".
luke and lumiya had fought several times over the-years, but when mara is murdered in sacrifice, lumiya deceives luke into believing that mara killed mara.
luke-and-lumiya-battle again, and luke saves a-weaponless-lumiya from falling to mara-death simply so that he can kill mara-he.
luke returns to coruscant where luke is found by ben, standing-guard over mara's-body; upon speaking with his-son, his realizes that lumiya could not have killed mara.
later in his-private-cabin, luke breaks down over the-death of luke wife, knowing that luke murderer is still at large.
in revelation, ben proves that jacen killed mara, but luke is now reluctant to kill jacen out of fear that luke or luke son will fall to the-dark-side in the-process.
luke and ben learn much about each other, about the-force, and about the-great-dangers threatening the-jedi.
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor =====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is a-standalone-novel that chronicles the-battle of mindor, a-fictional-event in the-star-wars expanded universe.
a-standalone-novel that chronicles the-battle of mindor was written by matthew-stover and released in december 2008.
the-novel is set shortly after return of the-jedi and the-novel-prophets of the-dark-side, with luke-skywalker and the-rebel-alliance attempting to stop lord-shadowspawn and his-"shadow-stormtroopers", culminating in the-battle of mindor.
matthew-stover has said on matthew-stover personal weblog, luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is my-attempt to get the-eu back to the-eu pre-zahn roots -- specifically, to evoke memories of my-all-time-favorite-star-wars-books, brian-daley's-han-solo-novels.
luke-skywalker appears in the-marvel-published-star-wars-comics-adaptations of the-original-trilogy, as well as an-ongoing-series that ran from 1977–86.
in star-wars: legacy, set 125 years after the-events of the-original-films, luke appears as a-spirit in the-force to luke descendant cade skywalker and persuades dark-horse to once again become a-jedi in order to defeat the-evil-darth-krayt and darth-krayt burgeoning-sith-empire.
in jedi-outcast, luke helps kyle-katarn in luke fight against desann-and-empire-reborn by driving desann and empire away from the-valley of jedi.
luke appears in the-game star-wars:
the-force unleashed in a-downloadable-alternate-storyline where starkiller duels luke.
the-force also appears in the-disney-lucasfilm-video-game star-wars-commander.
luke is also a-playable-character in disney-infinity 3.0.
each of the-star-wars-characters instantiates one of the-archetypes in joseph-campbell's-hero's-journey, with luke-skywalker symbolizing the-hero-archetype.
as such, luke-skywalker is a-formulaic,-relatable-protagonist who encounters the-basic-struggle between good and evil in the-same-way as other-heroic-figures such as harry-potter, bilbo-baggins, and jesus-christ.
some argue that luke mirrors fundamental-values of christianity and abrahamic religion; luke's journey is often compared to that of jesus-christ.
scholars argue that luke is a-christ-like-figure, while yoda represents a-god-and-darth-vader represents the-temptations of evil.
luke's-struggle between good and evil is contrasted with that of luke-father, anakin-skywalker, in a-way that represents the-story of jesus-christ.
luke was variously conceived of as a-60-year-old-grizzled-war-hero, later as a-jedi-master, and as a-woman.
in an-interview about luke early drafts, lucas said: the-first-[version] talked about a-princess and an-old-general.
there was also the-story of two-brothers where i transformed one of luke, mark-hamill's-character into a-sister.
starkiller" was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson.
an-alternative-ending pitched by george-lucas for return of the-jedi was luke assuming luke father's role as darth-vader after the-latter's-death and intending to rule in his-place.
though lawrence-kasdan favored the-idea, lucas ultimately declined, since the-films were made for children.
another-conclusion to the-film featured the-character disappearing into the-wilderness akin to "clint-eastwood in the-spaghetti-westerns. "
according to mark-hamill , during the-filming of the-original-star-wars-film, lucas asked lucas if lucas would reprise the-role for a-cameo when lucas was in lucas 60s to pass the-torch to the-next-generation.
in 1983, mark-hamill stated that lucas return to the-franchise would be "either be another-plane of existence or not-the-same-character".
hamill learned of the-sequel-trilogy over the-summer of 2012 at a-star-wars-celebration during lunch when lucas told hamill one was in development.
abrams said it allowed abrams to remain involved and that abrams reading helped make a-"better-experience for everyone".
according to concept-designer-christian-alzmann, luke's-appearance in the-last-jedi was partly inspired by that of colonel-kurtz in apocalypse now (1979).
in 2015, luke-skywalker was selected by empire-magazine as the-50th-greatest-movie-character of all-time.
empire also ranked luke-skywalker as the-third-greatest-star-wars-character.
luke was also on the-ballot for the-american-film-institute's-100-years...
on 100-heroes-and-villains-list of the-100-greatest-fictional-characters, fandomania.com ranked luke at number 14.
ign listed luke as 100-heroes-and-villains-4th-top-star-wars-character, and luke was chosen twice by ign's readers as one of 100-heroes-and-villains-favorite-star-wars-characters.
ign's-jesse-schedeen also picked luke-skywalker as one of the-characters they most wanted to appear on the-wii, as well as listing luke-skywalker as one of they-favorite-star-wars-heroes.
ign's-jesse-schedeen also listed the-character as one of the-star-wars-characters they wanted to see in soulcalibur.
ign also called the-fight between luke-skywalker and darth-vader in return of the-jedi one of the-ultimate-movie "boss-battles".
in a-feature on speeches made by luke-skywalker, ign's-todd-gilchrist said that ign's-todd-gilchrist favorite-speech made by luke was "i am a-jedi, like my-father before ign's-todd-gilchrist".
ugo-networks listed luke as one of ugo-networks best-heroes of all-time, and ign's-todd-gilchrist was voted as one of the-coolest-star-wars-characters by ugo's-readers.
ign's-todd-gilchrist was nominated a-saturn-award for best-actor in for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal of luke-skywalker in star-wars, and won the-award for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal in the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and the-jedi.
in regards to luke's-portrayal in the-last-jedi, many-fans expressed disappointment in how mark-hamill was depicted "as a-grumpy-old-man whose-failures had driven mark-hamill into hiding" and the-actions the-character takes in contributing to kylo-ren's-backstory, a-stark-departure in how luke was characterized in the-original-trilogy.
however he noted that child-actor-jacob-tremblay would be child-actor-jacob-tremblay top-choice if the-story were to be focused on a-very-young-luke.
" hamill later said that he considered the-possibility that luke could have found love between episode-vi and episode-vii.
skywalker remains an-american-icon.
in fact, luke-skywalker is often still used by child-psychotherapists to help children to project children-thoughts and state of being in a-way that is understandable to both-the-child and children therapist.
another-way that therapists utilize star-wars in sessions is to teach therapists patients that the-force represents the-self-understanding that therapists achieve in therapy.
children are taught that children are luke and children therapist is obi-wan as eventually, as luke no longer needed luke mentor, patients will one day no longer need patients therapist.
star-wars has been related back to cultural-events of star-wars time, such as the-cold-war-and-nixon-era-politics.
retrieved october 6, 2019.
luke-skywalker in the-starwars.com-databank
luke-skywalker on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki luke-skywalker on imdb luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-player must control luke-skywalker in a-snowspeeder to battle against imperial-at-at-walkers on the-planet-hoth.
the-player can destroy the-walker by shooting the-walker repeatedly in the-head or torso; shots to the-legs are ineffective.
the-player can also destroy the-walkers by shooting a-small-flashing-spot that randomly appears during gameplay.
the-player can land a-damaged-speeder to repair a-damaged-speeder.
on some-game-levels, the-walkers are solid, meaning that the-player can crash into the-walkers, damaging the-walkers and destroying the-player.
other-levels include a-smart-bomb which periodically launches from the-flashing-port on a-walker and follows the-player for a-time.
if the-player is hit by the-smart-bomb the-player speeder is destroyed.
if the-player survives for 20-minutes his-speeder is granted the-power of the-force for 20-seconds.
the-game ends when the-player's-fifth-speeder is destroyed or when the-lead-walker reaches echo-base, destroying the-player's-fifth-speeder.
as the-game progresses, the-walkers move more rapidly, increasing the-difficulty-level.
that same month, rival-publication-video-review-magazine ran a-review of the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison.
science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison blasted the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison as a-"shamelessly-exploitative-little-toy", "the-latest-icon of the-imbecile-industry", and a-"time-wasting-enterprise" with "the-potential to emerge as the-most-virulent-electronic-botulism of all".
according to science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison, the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison has "extremely-simple-minded-parameters" and the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison "bore[d]
, ellison suggested that the-game cannot be won and is thus "an-analogue for the-myth of sisyphus" providing "one-dreadful-life-lesson in those of a-youthful-intelligence who play it. ...
may the-force be with you!"
the-empire strikes back at atari-mania
the-empire strikes back at
the-empire strikes back on gamestm the-atari-2600-version of star-wars:
lucasfilm has spawned an-eponymous-video-game-series containing six-video-games, developed by traveller's-tales: lego-star-wars: the-video-game (2005), lego-star-wars ii:
the-clone-wars (2011), lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens (2016) and lego-star-wars:
sets based on the-prequel-trilogy (episodes i to iii) of star-wars would follow, starting with episode i – the-phantom-menace.
lego also produced models based on clone-wars, the clone-wars, the-old-republic, the-force-unleashed , rebels, the force awakens, battlefront, rogue one, the-last-jedi,-solo,-resistance, the-mandalorian and the-rise of skywalker.
in march 2021, lego announced that lego will be releasing helmets 75304-darth-vader, and 75305-scout-trooper on april 26, 2021.
on august 1, 2020, lego released 31200-star-wars
the-sith under the-lego-art-theme.
the-sith under the-lego-art-theme consists of 3,406-pieces and offers builders the-option to recreate any one of the-three-star-wars-villains (darth-maul, kylo-ren, and darth-vader) in a-mosaic-like-format using lego-studs.
traveller's-tales-president-jon-burton stated in a-july-2008-interview with variety that the-series had collectively sold 15-million-copies.
as of 2019, the-series has sold more-than-50-million-copies of lego-star-wars-video-games.
lego-star-wars: revenge of the-brick is the first computer-animated lego-star-wars short film.
it premiered on cartoon-network in mid-2005, in conjunction with the-theatrical-release of revenge of the-sith.
the-quest for r2-d2 is a-short-movie which aired on cartoon-network on august 2009, and was uploaded to the-lego-star-wars-website, in order to celebrate 10-years of lego-star-wars, lego-star-wars: bombad-bounty, is another-cgi-lego-star-short-film, the-quest for r2-d2 was released in 2010.
the-film also takes place at the-same-time as the-original-movies showing that jar-jar was responsible for the-destruction of the-first-death-star and was with boba-fett on jabba's-barge during the-events of return of the-jedi.
the special premiered in the-united-states on cartoon-network on july 22, 2011, at 7-p.m. and in the-united-kingdom on october 17 at 5:30.
the-empire strikes out released on september 26, 2012, airing on cartoon-network in the-united-states, and would be one of the-last-star-wars-productions to be made before lucasfilm was sold to the-walt-disney-company a month later.
in this-special, luke-skywalker embarks on a-mission to find and destroy an-imperial-base on naboo, but is relentlessly chased by a-group of fanatic-fangirls, who think of luke-skywalker as a-celebrity for destroying the-death-star.
meanwhile, darth-vader engages a-"sithling"-rivalry with darth-maul, in order to prove he's the-best-sith-lord to emperor-palpatine, who is constructing a-second-death-star.
the-lego-star-wars-holiday-special was released on november 17, 2020 on disney+, a-spiritual-successor to and satirisation of the-star-wars-holiday-special (1978).
in the special, set after episode-ix, rey begins to doubt her-abilities as a-teacher to finn.
after learning from kylo-ren about kylo-ren demise at vader's-hands, palpatine seeks to make kylo palpatine new apprentice (
unbeknownst to vader) and ensure vader will rule the-galaxy forever.
meanwhile, finn, rose and poe try to organize the-perfect-life-day-party, but chaos ensues at every-step.
"menace of the-sith" , aired on september 4, 2013.
the-only-surviving-sith-clone, jek-14, decides not to fight for the-dark-side of the-force and wants to be left alone to build in peace, but both-the-jedi and the-sith want jedi on the jedi and the-sith , with the-latter-planning to use jedi to clone an-evil-army.
attack of the-jedi", aired on november 27, 2013.
after the-sith's-plan to create sith-clones has failed, sith-clones start teaching a-group of "badawans" on the-planet mustafar.
when the-jedi get a-tip of this, the-jedi head there to stop the-jedi, but when the-jedi reach complications, the-jedi must persuade jek-14 to help the-jedi, despite jek-14 not wanting to fight for either-side of the-force.
droid-tales aired on disney-xd between july and november 2015, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
the-resistance rises aired on disney-xd between february and may 2016, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
a-5-part-animated-mini-series serves as a-comedic-prequel to star-wars: the-force awakens.
set between episode-v and episode-vi, it tells the-story of the-freemakers, a-family of scavengers that find themselves pulled into the-conflict between the-rebels and the-empire.
all-stars premiered on disney-xd on october 29, 2018.
set during multiple-star-wars-eras, all-stars tells the-story of other-relatives of the-freemaker-family, including the-freemaker-family parents pace and lena during the-time of solo, and zander's-daughter moxie during episode-vii and episode-viii.
isbn 0-75668-695-4-dk-readers-l3: lego-star-wars: revenge of the-sith.
the-empire strikes back.
return of the-jedi.
the-force awakens.
isbn 1-46546-663-0 lego star-wars visual dictionary new edition :
the-last-jedi –
original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 15, 2017 in digipak-cd, jewel-case-cd, digital-formats, and streaming-services.
the-force awakens, though some criticized the-score for relying too heavily on older-themes, especially on original-motion-picture-soundtrack.
in july 2013, kathleen-kennedy announced at star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-score introduces several-new-themes interwoven throughout the-film, including identities for the-character rose-tico, the-interactions between rey and luke-skywalker on ahch-to-island, and the-resistance's-desperate-escape from the-first-order.
themes introduced in the original trilogy return as well, including "luke's-theme", "leia's-theme", "the-rebel-fanfare", the-"force-theme" and a-small-quote of the-"death-star-motif" from a-new-hope; "yoda's-theme", "the-imperial-march", and "han-solo and the-princess" from the empire strikes back; and, "luke and leia" and "the-emperor's-theme" from return of the-jedi, and the star-wars prequels.
excerpts of the-"tie-fighter-attack"-cue, first heard in a-new-hope and reprised for return of the-jedi, are also included.
the-"force-theme"" is the-only-returning-theme to not be included within the-official-soundtrack-presentation (the-"force-theme" was later made accessible through the-digital-"music only" version of the-film); the-"force-theme" occurs in the-film when snoke tortures rey for information.
on march 13, the-digital-release of the-last-jedi came with an-exclusive-"music-only"-version of the-film, which features the-film's complete score without any-dialogue-or-sound-effects to interfere.
return of the-jedi (also known as star-wars:
episode-vi – return of the-jedi) is a-1983-american-epic-space-opera-film directed by richard-marquand.
it takes place one year after the-empire strikes back.
meanwhile, luke-skywalker, now-a-jedi-knight, struggles to bring the-emperor-father darth-vader back to the-light-side of the-force.
filming took place in england, california, and arizona from january to may 1982 (1982-05).
the-film was released in theaters on may 25, 1983, six-years to the-day of the-release of the-film, receiving mostly-positive-reviews.
the-film grossed $374 million during the-film initial theatrical run, becoming the-film.
several-re-releases and revisions to the-film have followed over the-decades, which has also brought the-film total gross to $475 million.
the-hutt's-palace on tatooine in a-trade-bargain made by luke-skywalker to rescue han.
disguised as the-bounty-hunter-boushh, princess-leia infiltrates the-hutt's-palace on tatooine in a-trade-bargain made by luke-skywalker to rescue han under the-pretense of collecting the-bounty on chewbacca and unfreezes han, but is caught and enslaved.
luke soon arrives to bargain for luke friends' release, but jabba drops luke through a-trapdoor to be eaten by a-rancor.
after luke kills it, jabba sentences
having hidden his-new-lightsaber inside r2-d2, luke frees his and his-friends, and himself and his-friends battle jabba's-men.
during the-chaos, boba-fett falls into the-sarlacc after han inadvertently damages boba-fett jetpack, and leia strangles jabba to death with leia chains.
as the-others rendezvous with the-rebel-alliance, luke returns to dagobah to complete luke jedi training with yoda, whom luke discovers is dying.
obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost then tells luke that leia is obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost twin-sister, and that obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost must face vader again to finish obi-wan-kenobi's-force-ghost training and defeat the-empire.
the-rebel-alliance learns that the-empire has been constructing a-second-death-star under the-supervision of the-emperor.
as the-station is protected by an-energy-shield, han leads a-strike-team which includes luke, leia and chewbacca to destroy the-shield-generator on the-forest-moon of endor; doing so will allow the-rebel-fleet to destroy a-second-death-star.
later, luke tells leia that luke is luke sister, vader is their-father, and that vader must confront vader.
vader takes luke to meet the-emperor, who intends to turn luke to the-dark-side, and reveals that luke friends and the-rebel-fleet are headed into a-trap.
the-emperor reveals to luke that the-second-death-star is fully operational and orders the-firing of the-second-death-star superlaser, destroying a-rebel-starship.
the-emperor tempts luke to give in to the-emperor anger.
luke attempts to attack the-emperor, but vader intervenes and the two engage in a-lightsaber-duel.
vader senses that luke has a-sister and threatens to turn a-sister to the-dark-side if vader does not.
enraged, luke defeats vader, severing luke prosthetic hand.
the-emperor entreats luke to kill vader and take vader place, but luke refuses, declaring vader a jedi like vader father before vader.
furious, the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
at his-son last-request, luke removes vader's-mask, and the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker dies.
luke escapes in a-shuttle with luke father's body.
on endor, leia reveals to han that luke is leia brother.
luke cremates his-father's-body on a-pyre and reunites with his-father-friends.
as the-rebels and the-galaxy celebrate the-empire's-defeat, luke sees the-spirits of yoda, obi-wan, and anakin watching over luke.
david-prowse as darth-vader, a-powerful-sith-lord, the-emperor's-apprentice, and second-in-command of the-galactic-empire; luke and leia's-father.
alec-guinness as obi-wan-kenobi, the-deceased-jedi-mentor of luke, and of his-father before his, who continues to guide luke in his-journey as a-force-ghost.
warwick-davis appears as wicket-w.-warrick, an-ewok who befriends leia and leads leia and leia friends to the-ewok-tribe.
leia was originally cast as wicket, but was replaced by warwick-davis after falling ill with food-poisoning on the-morning of the-shoot.
to portray the-numerous-alien-species featured in the-film a-multitude of puppeteers, voice-actors, and stunt-performers were employed.
sy-snootles was a-marionette operated by rose and quinn, while sy-snootles voice was provided by annie-arbogast.
as with the-previous-film, lucas personally financed return of the-jedi.
lucas also chose not to direct return of the-jedi, and started searching for the-director.
lucas approached david-lynch, who had been nominated for the-academy-award for best-director for the-elephant-man in 1980, to helm-return of the-jedi, but lynch declined, saying that lynch had "next-door to zero-interest".
lucas eventually chose richard-marquand.
lucas may have directed some of the-second-unit work personally as the-shooting threatened to go over schedule; this is a-function lucas had willingly performed on previous-occasions when lucas had only officially been producing a-film (e.g.-more-american-graffiti, raiders of the-lost-ark).
lucas did operate the-b-camera on the-set a few times.
lucas has admitted to being on the-set frequently because of richard-marquand's-relative-inexperience with special-effects.
lucas praised marquand as a-"very-nice-person who worked well with actors".
marquand did note that lucas kept a-conspicuous-presence on set, joking, "
the-screenplay was written by lawrence-kasdan and lucas (with uncredited-contributions by david-peoples and marquand), based on lucas story.
lawrence-kasdan claims lawrence-kasdan told lucas that return of the-jedi was "a-weak-title", and lucas later decided to name the-film revenge of the-jedi.
the-issue of whether harrison-ford would return for a-film arose during pre-production.
return of the-jedi-producer howard-kazanjian (who also produced raiders of the-lost-ark) convinced ford to return: i played a-very-important-part in bringing harrison back for return of the-jedi.
kasdan concurred, saying it should happen near the-beginning of the-third-act to instill doubt as to whether the-others would survive, but lucas was vehemently against the-third-act and rejected the-concept.
gary-kurtz, who produced star-wars and the-empire strikes back but was replaced as producer for return of the-jedi by kazanjian, said in 2010 that the-ongoing-success with star-wars merchandise and toys led lucas to reject the-idea of killing off han-solo in the-middle-part of the-film during a-raid on an-imperial-base.
luke-skywalker was also to have walked off alone and exhausted like the-hero in a-spaghetti-western but, according to kurtz, lucas opted for a-happier-ending to encourage higher-merchandise-sales.
ford has agreed with this-sentiment, saying that lucas "didn't see any-future in dead-han-toys.
the-inclusion led lucas to insert a-scene in which yoda confirms that darth-vader is luke's-father because, after a-discussion with a-children's-psychologist, he did not want younger-moviegoers to dismiss vader's-claim as a-lie.
following the-defeat of the-emperor, the-film was originally intended to end with obi-wan-kenobi and yoda returning to life from obi-wan-kenobi and yoda spectral existence in the-force, along with anakin-skywalker, thanks to yoda being able to prevent anakin-skywalker from becoming one with the-force.
working on a-budget of $32.5 million, lucas was determined to avoid going over budget as had happened with the empire strikes back.
however, the fact that lucasfilm was a-non-union-company made acquiring shooting-locations more difficult and more expensive, even though star-wars and the empire strikes back had been big-hits.
the-first-stage of production started with 78-days at elstree-studios in england, where the-film occupied all-nine-stages.
this was the-only-major-sequence cut from the-film during editing.)
while attempting to film luke-skywalker's-battle with the-rancor-beast, lucas insisted on trying to create a-scene in the-same-style as toho's-godzilla-films by using a-stunt-performer inside a-suit.
lucas eventually relented and decided to film the-rancor as a-high-speed-puppet.
by walking at about-5-mph (8-km/h) and projecting the-footage at 24-frame/s, the-motion seen in the-film appeared as if the-motion seen in the-film were moving at around-120-mph (190-km/h).
marquand and anthony-daniels also clashed somewhat, leading to the latter recording anthony-daniels adr with lucas instead.
in the-same-year, sony-classical re-pressed the-1997-rca-victor-release of return of the-jedi along with the-other-two-films in the-trilogy.
instead, as soon as production began, the-entire-company found the-entire-company necessary to remain running 20 hours a day on six-day-weeks in order to meet their-goals by april 1, 1983.
return of the-jedi's-theatrical-release took place on may 25, 1983.
return of the-jedi, despite the-jedi on-screen "episode vi" distinction.
the-original-film was later re-released to theaters in 1985.in 1997, for the-20th-anniversary of the-release of star-wars (re-titled-episode-iv: a-new-hope), lucas released the star-wars trilogy:
along with the-two-other-films in the-star-wars-trilogy, return of the-jedi was re-released on march 7, 1997, with a-number of changes and additions, which included the-insertion of several-alien-band-members and a-different-song in jabba's-throne-room, the-modification of the-sarlacc to include a-beak, the-replacement of music at the-closing-scene, and a-montage of different-alien-worlds celebrating the-fall of the-empire.
the-original-teaser-trailer for the-film carried the-name revenge of the-jedi.
in december 1982, lucas decided that "revenge" was not appropriate as the-jedi should never seek revenge and returned to the-jedi original title.
lucasfilm stopped the-shipping of the-posters and sold the-remaining-stock of 6,800-posters to star-wars-fan-club-members for $9.50.star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, released in 2005 as part of the-prequel-trilogy, later alluded to the-dismissed-title revenge of the-jedi.
the-original-theatrical-version of return of the-jedi was released on vhs and laserdisc several times between 1986 and 1995, followed by releases of the-special-edition in the-same-formats between 1997 and 2000.
on september 21, 2004, all-three-original-films were released in a-boxed-set on dvd with additional-changes made by george-lucas.
the-bonus-disc included documentaries including empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy and several-featurettes including "the-characters of star-wars", "the-birth of the-lightsaber", and "the-legacy of star-wars".
with the-release of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, which depicts how and why anakin-skywalker turned to the-dark-side of the-force, lucas once again altered return of the-jedi to bolster the-relationship between the-original-trilogy and the-prequel-trilogy.
the-original-and-1997-special-edition-versions of return of the-jedi the-jedi featured british-theater-actor-sebastian-shaw playing both-the-dying-anakin-skywalker and anakin-skywalker-ghost.
in the-2004-dvd, shaw's-portrayal of anakin's-ghost is replaced by hayden-christensen, who portrayed anakin in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy were later released, individually, on dvd on september 12, 2006.
all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy were originally slated to be available only until december 31, 2006, although all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy remained in print until may 2011 and were packaged with the-2004-versions again in a-new-box set on november 4, 2008.
the-runtime of the-1997-special-edition of the-film and all-subsequent-releases is approximately five minutes longer than the-original-theatrical-version.
a-blu-ray-disc-version of the-star-wars-saga was announced for release in 2011 during star-wars-celebration-v.-several-deleted-scenes from return of the-jedi were included for the-blu-ray-version, including a-sandstorm-sequence following the-battle at the-sarlacc-pit, a-scene featuring moff-jerjerrod-and-death-star-officers during the-battle of endor, and a-scene where darth-vader communicates with luke via the-force as skywalker is assembling skywalker new lightsaber before skywalker infiltrates jabba's-palace.
on january 6, 2011, 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment announced the-blu-ray-release for september 2011 in three-different-editions and the-cover-art was unveiled in may.
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
return of the-jedi the-jedi the-jedi was released through the-itunes-store, amazon-video, vudu, google-play, and disney-movies
anywhere on april 10, 2015.walt
disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued return of the-jedi on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
return of the-jedi grossed $309.3 million in the-united-states and canada, and $166 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $475.3 million, against a-production-budget of about $32.5 million.
the-film sold over-80-million-tickets in the-us in box-office-mojo-initial-theatrical-run.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads: "though failing to reach the-cinematic-heights of its-predecessors, return of the-jedi remains an-entertaining-sci-fi-adventure and a-fitting-end to the-classic-trilogy.
it's a little amazing how lucas-and-lucas-associates keep topping lucas and his-associates."
gene-siskel of the-chicago-tribune also gave the-film four-stars out of four and wrote, "from the-moment that the-familiar-star-wars-introductory-words begin to crawl up the-screen, return of the-jedi is a-childlike-delight.
and for the-professional-moviegoers, it is particularly enjoyable to watch every-facet of filmmaking at the-film best."
james-harwood of variety called the-film "a-visual-treat throughout," but thought that "hamill is not enough of a-dramatic-actor to carry the-plot-load here" and harrison-ford "is present more in body than in spirit this time, given little to do but react to special-effects.
but lucas and director-richard-marquand have overwhelmed these-performer-flaws with a-truly-amazing-array of creatures, old and new, plus the-familiar-space-hardware."
sheila-benson of the-los-angeles-times wrote that the-film "is fully satisfying, the-film gives honest-value to all-the-hopes of the-film believers.
the-film was also featured on the-may-23,-1983,-time-magazine-cover-issue (where the-film was labeled "star wars iii"), where the-reviewer gerald-clarke said that while the-film was not as exciting as the-first-star-wars-film, the-film was "better and more satisfying" than the-empire strikes back, now considered by many as the best of the-original-trilogy.
vincent-canby of the-new-york-times called return of the-jedi "by far the-dimmest-adventure of the-lot" and stated, "the-joys of watching space-battles as envisioned by wizards in studios and laboratories are not inexhaustible."
pauline-kael of the-new-yorker stated, "some of the-trick-effects might seem miraculous if the-imagery had any-lustre, but return of the-jedi is an-impersonal-and-rather-junky-piece of moviemaking. "
christopher-john reviewed the-return of the-jedi in ares magazine #15 and commented that "star-wars may not be dead, but return of the-jedi is a-failure, and is a-cheap-and-tarnished-crown for the-series which shook the-world of film when it started out . . .
"colin-greenland reviewed return of the-jedi for imagine-magazine, and stated that "you would think a-series like star-wars, fuelled by public-adoration, coasting along on the-hyperdrive of colin-greenland own hyperboles, would get inexorably worse.
kendrick of q-network-film-desk, reviewing the-1997-special-edition-re-release, assessed return of the-jedi as "the least of the-three"-original-films, but "still-a-magnificent-experience in the-jedi own right.
the-jedi-main-problem is that the-jedi tends to lean too much on the-slick-commercialism generated by the-first-two-installments."
reelviews.net's-james-berardinelli wrote of the-special-edition: although it was great-fun re-watching star-wars and the-empire
return of the-jedi doesn't generate the-same-sense of enjoyment.
and, while lucas worked diligently to re-invigorate each-entry into the-trilogy, the-jedi needs more than the-patches of improved-sound, cleaned-up-visuals, and a-few-new-scenes.
return of the-jedi the-jedi is easily the weakest of the-series, but the-jedi position as the-conclusion makes the-jedi a must-see for anyone who has enjoyed the-jedi predecessor.
lucas has defended the-scenario, saying that ewoks-purpose was to distract the-imperial-troops and the-imperial-troops did not really win.
the-novelization of return of the-jedi was written by james-kahn and was released on may 12, 1983, thirteen days before the-film's-release.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was written by brian-daley with additional-material contributed by john-whitman and was produced for and broadcast on national-public-radio in 1996.
the-first-two-star-wars-films were similarly adapted for national-public-radio in the-early-1980s, but it was not until 1996 that a-radio-version of return of the-jedi was heard.
mark-hamill and billy-dee-williams were replaced by newcomer-joshua-fardon as luke-skywalker and character-actor-arye-gross as lando-calrissian.
marvel-comics published a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film by writer-archie-goodwin and artists-al-williamson, carlos-garzon, tom-palmer, and ron-frenz.
a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film appeared in marvel super special #27 and as a-four-issue-limited-series.
a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film was later reprinted in a-mass-market-paperback.
lucasfilm adapted the-story for a-children's-book-and-record-set.
released in 1983, the 24-page star wars: return of the-jedi-read-along-book was accompanied by a-33⅓-rpm 18-centimetre (7 in) gramophone-record.
each-page of the-jedi-read-along-book contained a-cropped-frame from the-film with an-abridged-and-condensed-version of the-story.
– the-force awakens in 2015, set 30 years after return of the-jedi.
episode-vi-return of the-jedi on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-return of the-jedi at imdb-return of the-jedi at the-tcm-movie-database-return of the-jedi at allmovie-return of the-jedi at the-american-film-institute-catalog
the-series premiered on july 3, 2017, beginning the-daily-release of a-set of eight-episodes; eight-episodes subsequently began broadcasting on disney-channel on july 9.
first announced and presented in april 2017 during star-wars-celebration-orlando
the-series is the-first-2d-animated-series produced by lucasfilm since the-2003-star-wars: clone-wars-series and the-first-2d-project by lucasfilm animation, which formed after the-development of star-wars: clone-wars.
forces of destiny was announced on april 12, 2017, and a-special-preview of the-series presented at star-wars-celebration-orlando on april 14.
the-series is the-first-2d-animated-series produced by lucasfilm since the-2003-clone-wars-series and the-first-2d-animation-project created by lucasfilm animation; previous-2d-animated-series such as ewoks, droids, and early-installments of clone-wars were created before the-formation of the-studio.
the-series is part of disney-consumer-products and interactive-media's-franchise-expansion-initiative.
a-second-season of fifteen-additional-episodes was announced in september 2017.
a-second-set of eight-episodes was released in october 2017.
it was subsequently announced that episodes will air in two-half-hour-specials on disney-channel on october 1 and 29.
the-series is available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
alongside the-initial-series-announcement, lucasfilm also announced a-related-toy-line from hasbro and an-apparel-line.
other-characters, including luke-skywalker and kylo-ren, are intended to be released.
star-wars: forces of destiny on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki
list of acorn-electron-games ===
list of apple arcade games list of apple-ii-games
list of apple iigs games list of ios games list of macintosh-games ===
list of amstrad cpc games list of amstrad-pcw-games ===
atari === list of atari-2600-games
list of atari 5200 games list of atari 7800 games list of atari jaguar games list of atari jaguar cd games list of atari lynx games
list of atari st games list of atari-xegs-games ===
list of bandai rx-78 games list of bandai super vision 8000 games list of design master senshi mangajukuu games list of playdia-games
list of pippin games list of terebikko games list of wonderswan games list of wonderswan-color-games ===
list of casio loopy games list of casio-pv-1000-games ===
list of commodore pet games list of amiga games list of amiga cd32 games list of commodore 64 games
list of commodore-vic-20-games ===
list of fm-towns-games ===
list of android games list of stadia-games ===
list of clickstart games list of leapfrog didj games list of leapfrog leapster games list of leapfrog-leapster-explorer-games
list of linux-games ===
list of aquarius games list of hyperscan games list of intellivision games list of pixter-games ===
index of dos-games index of windows-games list of games for windows-titles
list of games for windows – live-titles list of windows games on demand list of xbox-live-games on windows 8.x list of xbox-live-games on windows 10
list of msx-games ====
list of xbox-games list of xbox-games on windows phone list of xbox system link games list of xbox-360-games list of xbox-360-games
list of xbox-360-games (m–z) list of xbox 360 system link games list of xbox-games compatible with xbox 360 list of xbox-one-games
list of xbox-one-games
list of xbox
list of pc-fx-games
list of turbografx-16-games ===
list of family computer games list of family computer disk system games list of nintendo entertainment system games list of super nintendo entertainment system games list of satellaview-broadcasts
list of virtual boy games list of nintendo 64 games list of gamecube games list of wii games list of wiiware-games
list of virtual-console-games for wii (japan) list of virtual-console-games for wii (north-america) list of virtual-console-games for wii (pal-region) list of virtual-console-games for wii (south-korea) list of wii-u-games
list of wii-games on wii u eshop list of virtual-console-games for wii u (japan) list of virtual-console-games for wii u (north-america) list of virtual-console-games for wii u (pal-region) list of nintendo-switch-games
list of game & watch games list of game boy games list of multiplayer-game-boy-games
list of game boy color games list of super game boy games list of game boy advance games list of nintendo ds games list of dsiware-games and applications
list of nintendo 3ds games list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds
list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds (south korea) list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds (
list of cd-i games list of magnavox-odyssey²-games ===
list of sg-1000 games list of master system games list of tectoy-master-system
list of sega cd games list of game gear games list of sega pico games list of advanced pico beena games list of sega-saturn-games
list of dreamcast-games ===
list of zx-spectrum-games ===
list of neo geo games list of neo-geo-pocket-color-games ===
list of playstation-games list of playstation-games
(d–i) list of playstation-3-games
(q–z)-list of playstation-2-classics for playstation-3-list of playstation
(m–z)-list of playstation 4 free-to-play games
list of playstation-2-games for playstation 4 list of playstation vr games list of playstation 5 games list of playstation-portable-games
list of downloadable playstation portable games list of playstation minis list of playstation-vita-games list of playstation-vita-games (a–l) list of playstation-vita-games (m–o)
list of playstation-vita-games (p–r) list of playstation-vita-games (s) list of playstation-vita-games (t–v) list of playstation-vita-games (w–z)
list of trs-80-games ===
list of vtech creativision games list of vtech-socrates-games
list of vtech
list of 3do games list of action max games list of apf imagination machine games list of arcade-video-games
list of arcadia 2001 games list of bally astrocade games list of bbc bridge companion games list of browser games list of cassette-vision-games
list of colecovision games list of coleco adam games list of creatronic mega duck games list of entex select-a-game games list of epoch-game-pocket-computer-games
list of fairchild channel f games list of gakken compact vision tv boy games list of gamate games list of game master games list of game.com-games
list of gizmondo games list of gp2x games list of commercial gp32 games list of hp3000 games list of interton-vc
list of nuon games list of ouya games list of palladium tele-cassetten game games list of pc games list of free-pc-games
list of pc booter games list of pioneer laseractive games list of rca studio ii games list of sam coupé games list of shg-black-point-games
list of super a'can games list of super cassette vision games list of takara video challenger games list of view-master-interactive-vision-games
list of tapwave zodiac games list of tomy tutor games list of vectrex games list of watara supervision games list of xavixport-games
list of zapit game wave games list of zeebo-games ==
list of activision video games list of atari,-inc.-games
list of atari,
list of cygames games list of disney interactive studios games list of electronic arts games list of king games list of koei-games
list of kojima productions games list of konami games list of namco games lists of nintendo games list of nintendo-products
list of rockstar games list of sega games list of snk games list of sony interactive entertainment video games list of ubisoft-games
list of xbox-game-studios-video-games ==
list of accessories to video-games by system list of dedicated-video-game-consoles
list of handheld-game-consoles list of home-video-game consoles list of microconsoles list of retro-style-video-game-consoles ==
list of video-games in development ==
list of longest-running-video-game-franchises
list of .hack media list of beatmania video games list of bleach video games list of bomberman video games list of castlevania-media
list of dance dance revolution video games list of digimon video games list of disney video games list of eamon-adventures
list of f-zero media list of final fantasy video games list of final fantasy media list of guitar-freaks and drum mania video games list of kirby-media
list of the-legend of zelda media list of mega man video games list of metroid media list of mortal kombat media list of nancy-drew-video-games
list of naruto video games list of pokémon video games list of resident evil media list of the simpsons video games list of sonic
list of xenosaga characters list of video-games featuring miis list of wwe 2k games video-games ===
list of donkey kong video games list of luigi video games list of mario educational games list of mario puzzle games list of mario-racing-games
list of mario role-playing games list of mario sports games list of wario video-games list of yoshi video-games list of video-games featuring mario
list of computer-games with spawn versions list of augmented reality games list of stereoscopic-video-games
list of video-games that support cross-platform-play ==
list of video-games developed in canada list of video-games developed in the-czech-republic
list of video-games developed in france list of video-games developed in germany list of video-games developed in india list of video-games developed in japan list of video-games developed in the-netherlands
list of video-games developed in spain list of video-games developed in the united kingdom list of video-games developed in the-united-states ==
list of cryengine games list of frostbite games list of gamemaker studio games list of goldsrc mods list of ren'py-games
list of renderware games list of source mods list of unity games list of unreal-engine-games ==
list of beat 'em ups
list of fighting games list of first-person shooters list of gun games list of platform game series list of third-person-shooters
list of party video games list of puzzle video games list of maze-video-games
list of tetris variants list of quiz-arcade-games ===
list of role-playing-video-games
list of massively multiplayer online role-playing games list of text-based mmorpgs list of roguelikes ===
list of business simulation-video-games list of city-building video games list of racing video games list of god video games list of simulation-video-games
list of space-flight-simulation-games ===
list of american football video games list of association-football-video-games
list of australian rules football video games list of baseball video games list of basketball video games list of formula one video games list of golf-video-games
list of ice hockey video games list of licensed professional wrestling video games list of nascar video games list of rugby union video games list of snowboarding-video-games
list of sumo video games list of olympic video games list of volleyball video games list of wwe-video-games ===
list of 4x video games list of artillery video games list of chess software list of grand-strategy-video-games
list of multiplayer online battle arena games list of real-time strategy video games list of real-time tactics video games list of turn-based strategy video games list of turn-based-tactics-video-games
list of tactical role-playing video-games ===
other === list of card-game-based-video-games
list of christian video games list of educational video games list of erotic video games list of eroge list of graphic-adventure-games
list of horror video games list of music video games list of ninja video games list of text-based computer games list of vampire-video-games
list of western video games list of world war i video games list of world war ii video games list of zombie-video-games
list of cel-shaded-video-games ==
list of freeware video games list of freeware first-person shooters list of open-source video games list of commercial-video-games released as freeware list of commercial-video-games with available-source-code
list of crossovers in video-games list of video-games based on anime or manga list of video-games based on cartoons list of video-games based on comics list of video-games based on dc-comics
list of video-games based on films ==
list of cooperative video games list of massively-multiplayer-online-games
list of free massively multiplayer online games list of massively multiplayer online first-person shooter games list of massively multiplayer online real-time strategy games list of massively multiplayer online turn-based strategy games list of free-multiplayer-online-games
list of multiplayer-browser-games ==
list of banned video games list of best-selling-game-consoles
list of best-selling video games list of best-selling pc games list of best-selling video game franchises list of highest-grossing arcade games list of highest-grossing-mobile-games
list of commercial-failures in video-games list of controversial video-games list of recalled video-games list of video-games considered the best list of video-games notable for negative-reception
other-==-list of most-expensive-video-games to develop list of pinball manufacturers list of vaporware
list of video-game-collector and limited-editions list of video-game-console-emulators list of video-game-remakes and remastered ports list of video-games considered artistic list of video-games derived from modifications
list of video-games in the-museum of modern art list of video-games notable for speedrunning list of video-games with lgbt-characters ==
list of video game websites list of video-gaming-topics
the-first-live-action-series in the-franchise, the-mandalorian, premiered in november 2019, and spawned three-spin-offs, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic and ahsoka.
nelvana, the-animation-studio that produced the-animated-segment of the-holiday-special, was hired to create two-animated-series which aired together on abc: droids (1985–1986) follows the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2, and its-sister series-ewoks (1985–1987) features wicket and other-members of the-titular-species from return of the-jedi, both set before the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ===
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) was introduced through a-2008-animated-film of the-same-name.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series is set between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith of the-prequel-trilogy.
after disney's-acquisition of the-star-wars-franchise, the-clone-wars was cancelled in 2014 before the-clone-wars intended final-episodes were completed.
the-chronological-storyline-order was released after the-series had initially finished airing.
the-film and series were included in the-canon established in 2014.
the-film and series was later revived for an-additional-final-season that premiered on february 21, 2020, on the-streaming-service disney+.
due to the-film rogue-one being produced at the-same-time, the-film and the-series acknowledged each other.
the-series also included an-in-canon-version of grand-admiral-thrawn from the-legends
sequel trilogy-characters such as captain-phasma, general-hux, and kylo-ren appear.
the-second-and-final-season premiered on october 6, 2019.
set after the-events of the-clone-wars, the-bad-batch follows the-titular-squadron making the-bad-batch way through the-galaxy as mercenaries in the-early-days of the-empire.
the-series was announced in july 2020, to debut on disney+
announced on december 10, 2020, star-wars: visions is an-anime-anthology-series of ten-short-films by different-creators set in the star-wars universe.
cartoon-network produced and aired the-micro-series-clone-wars from 2003 to weeks before the-2005-release of revenge of the-sith, as the-series featured events set between those-films.
the-plot in the-series was intended as prequel to then-upcoming-feature-movie-episode-iii: revenge of the-sith and directly leads to the-starting-point in the-movie.
the-plot in the-series won the-primetime-emmy-awards for outstanding-animated-program in 2004 and 2005.
using stylized-animation, the-series of shorts reimagine key-scenes from the-saga, initially leading up the-release of episode-ix.
star-wars roll out debuted on the star-wars kids youtube channel and website in august 2019.
io9 calls the-design of the-series "adorable".
the-mandalorian (2019–present) ===
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in august 2018, it was reported that the-series would cost about "$100 million for 10-episodes".
the-series premiered on november 12, 2019, with the-launch of disney+.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
it will be released in december 2021.
the-series will follow rebel-spy-cassian-andor, five years before the-events of rogue one, during the-formative-years of the-rebellion.
in november 2018, a-prequel-series to the-2016-film rogue one centered on rebel-spy-cassian-andor was confirmed to be in development, and described as a-"rousing-spy-thriller".
in april 2019, alan-tudyk was confirmed to be reprising alan-tudyk role of k-2so.
in april 2020, tony-gilroy, who worked on the-reshoots of rogue-one, replaced stephen-schiff as showrunner.
it was also revealed in april 2020 that stellan-skarsgård, kyle-soller,
in september 2020, it was announced that gilroy would step down from gilroy directing duties in light of the-covid-19-pandemic and would be replaced by toby-haynes, who is set to direct the-first-three-episodes.
in august 2019, it was reported that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise ewan-mcgregor role from the-prequel-trilogy.
during the-2019-d23-expo, lucasfilm officially announced that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise his-role from the-prequel trilogyewan-mcgregor ewan-mcgregor .
it will take place eight years after revenge of the-sith and prior to the-events of a-new-hope, thus exploring the-time during kenobi's-exile on tatooine.
in september 2019, deborah-chow and hossein-amini were announced as the-series'-director and writer, respectively, who will also serve as executive-producers alongside mcgregor.
in october 2019, mcgregor said the-series' would comprise six-episodes.
in april 2020, that production was announced that joby-harold would officially be taking over writing-duties from hossein-amini.
in august 2020, mcgregor told thewrap that it would be a-limited-series.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in april 2020, variety reported that a-female-centric-live-action-star-wars-series is in development for disney+
in early-november, russian-doll-co-creator-leslye-headland expounded that the-series would be set "in a-pocket of the-universe and a-pocket of the-timeline that we don't know much about," elaborating that she was more engaged creatively with the-geography of the-universe than its-existing-visuals.
on november 5, deadline reported that the-series was expected to be an-"action-thriller with martial-arts-elements".
on disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that the-series would take place during the-late-high-republic-era.
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
in december 2020, lando was announced as a-disney+-limited-series, focusing on the-titular-character, with a-story by justin-simien.
in december 2020, rangers of the-new-republic was announced.
first announced in december 2019, the-series debuted on the-star-wars-kids-website and youtube-channel on june 10, 2020.
the-series features young-contestants competing as jedi-padawans in a-series of obstacle-courses and knowledge-tests in the-attempt to gain the-rank of jedi-knight.
the-show is hosted by ahmed-best, who plays the-character of kelleran-beq, the-jedi-master-mentor of the-contestants who is joined by his-droid-companions, ad-3
sam-witwer provides the-voice of an-unknown-character of the-dark-side of the-force during the-final-challenge of each-episode.
in 2007, lucas described the-project as "one-show that will split into four-shows, focusing on different-characters. "
the-series was described as "gritty and dark" and was expected to feature characters such as han-solo, chewbacca, lando-calrissian, boba-fett, c-3po, and emperor-palpatine.
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
producer-rick-mccallum revealed the-working-title, star-wars: underworld, in 2012, and that it would focus on criminal-and-political-power-struggles in the-"period when the-empire is trying to take things over. "
ronald-d.-moore was one of the-writers, and extensive-artwork including character, costume, and set designs were developed at skywalker-ranch under the-close-supervision of lucas and mccallum.
the-project was still being considered after lucasfilm was sold to disney, including by abc, with stories being reviewed as of december 2015.
the-story of han winning the-millennium-falcon from lando was planned to be featured and later developed as solo:
in early 2020, stargate-studios shared test-footage made to promote the-series to networks, as well as a-google-doc listing production-details for the-series.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
lego-star-wars-§-films and videos-list of star-wars cast members-list of star-wars characters
list of star-wars-films ==
the-last-jedi (also known as star-wars:
produced by lucasfilm and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-second-installment of the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015), and the-eighth-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
the-last-jedi follows rey as the-last-jedi seeks the-aid of luke-skywalker, in hopes of turning the-tide for the-resistance in the-fight against kylo-ren and the-first-order, while general-leia-organa, finn, and poe-dameron attempt to escape a-first-order-attack on the-dwindling-resistance-fleet.
the-film features the-first-posthumous-film-performance by fisher, who died in december 2016, and the-film is dedicated to the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi is part of a-new-trilogy of films announced after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
a-number of scenes were filmed at skellig-michael in ireland during pre-production in september 2015, but principal-photography began at pinewood-studios in england in february 2016 and wrapped that july.
the-last-jedi premiered in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-last-jedi grossed over $1.3 billion worldwide, becoming the-highest-grossing-film of 2017 and the-ninth-highest-grossing-film of all-time during the-last-jedi theatrical run.
the-sequel, the-rise of skywalker, was released in december 2019.
the-remaining-resistance escapes into hyperspace, but the-first-order uses a-device to track the-remaining-resistance, and attacks again.
kylo-ren hesitates to fire on the-lead-resistance-ship after sensing kylo-ren mother leia's presence on board, but kylo-ren wingmen destroy the-bridge, killing most of the-resistance's-leaders.
leia is dragged into space but survives by using the-force.
while leia recovers, vice-admiral-holdo assumes command of the-resistance.
on ahch-to, rey attempts to recruit luke-skywalker to the-resistance.
under self-imposed-exile, luke refuses to help and says that the-jedi should end.
after encouragement from r2-d2, after encouragement from r2-d2 agrees to give rey three-lessons in the-ways of the-force.
rey and kylo begin communicating through the-force, which puzzles them both.
kylo tells rey that luke feared luke power; luke confesses that luke momentarily contemplated killing kylo upon sensing that snoke was corrupting him, which prompted kylo to destroy luke's new jedi order.
convinced that kylo can be redeemed, rey leaves ahch-to.
luke prepares to burn the-jedi-library but hesitates.
the-spirit of luke's-master-yoda encourages luke to learn from
kylo brings rey to snoke, who reveals that he connected their-minds to discover luke's-whereabouts.
holdo plans to evacuate the-remaining-members of the-resistance using small-transport-vessels.
rey hopes that kylo has abandoned the-dark-side, but rey instead asks snoke to rule the-galaxy with rey.
refusing, snoke battles rey for control of luke's-lightsaber, bisecting the-weapon.
rey escapes the-destruction while kylo declares himself supreme leader.
bb-8 frees finn and rose; they defeat phasma and join the-survivors on crait.
when the-first-order arrives, poe, finn, and rose attack with obsolete-speeders.
rey and chewbacca draw tie-fighters away in the-millennium-falcon, while rose stops finn from sacrificing rey.
the-first-order penetrates the-resistance-fortress using a-siege-cannon.
luke appears and confronts the-first-order, allowing the-surviving-resistance to escape.
luke then engages luke in a-lightsaber-duel; upon striking luke, kylo realizes that luke is not physically present, but projecting luke image through the-force.
rey helps the-remaining-resistance-escape on the-falcon.
exhausted, luke dies peacefully on ahch-to, becoming one with the-force.
rey and leia sense rey death, and leia tells rey that the-resistance can rise again.
at canto-bight, the-stablehands recount the-story of luke-skywalker; afterward, one of rey and leia moves a-broom with the-force and gazes into space.
mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, a-powerful-jedi-master who has been in self-imposed-exile on the-planet ahch-to.
on canto-bight, the-character mistakes bb-8 for a-slot-machine.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-highly-force-sensitive-scavenger from the-desert-planet-jakku who joined the-resistance and goes to find luke.
john-boyega as finn, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order who defected to the-resistance.
andy-serkis as supreme-leader-snoke, the-leader of the-first-order and kylo-ren's-master.
kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-member of the-resistance who works in maintenance.
billie-lourd, mike-quinn, and timothy d. rose reprise billie-lourd, mike-quinn, and timothy-d.-rose-roles as lieutenant-connix, nien-nunb, and
jimmy-vee portrays r2-d2, taking over the-role from kenny-baker, who died in august 2016.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
j.-j.-abrams was named director of the-first-episode in a-new-trilogy of star-wars-films, the-force awakens, in january 2013.
johnson confirmed in august that johnson would direct episode viii.in january 2015, disney-ceo-bob-iger stated that episode viii would be released in 2017.
in december, lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy said that the-film had not been mapped out and that abrams was collaborating with johnson, who would in turn work with (then)
additionally, abrams served as an-executive-producer along with tom-karnowski and jason-mcgatlin.
in january 2017, lucasfilm announced the-title for episode-viii as star-wars: the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi-story begins immediately after the-force awakens.
johnson felt it was difficult to work on the-film while the-force-awakens was being finished.
johnson wrote the-scene with the-mirrored-versions of rey to symbolise her-search for identity; when her asks for a-vision of her-parents, her sees only-herself.
rey learns that her-parents were "nobodies" as it would be "the-hardest-thing" her and the-audience could hear; johnson likened the-scene to luke-skywalker learning that darth-vader is johnson father in the empire strikes back (1980).
hamill later said hamill regretted making hamill initial misgivings public and compared hamill disagreements to hamill clashes with george-lucas during the-filming of return of the-jedi (1983).
in september 2015, disney shortlisted the-female-cast-members to gina-rodriguez, tatiana-maslany, and olivia-cooke.
in october 2015, gugu-mbatha-raw was rumored to have been cast in the-film.
in november, kennedy announced at the-london-premiere of the-force awakens that the-entire-cast would return for episode-viii, along with "a-handful" of new-cast-members.
in april 2017, at the-star-wars-celebration-orlando, lucasfilm announced that kelly-marie-tran would play resistance-maintenance-worker-rose-tico, which johnson described as the-film's-largest-new-role.
second-unit-photography began during pre-production at skellig-michael in ireland on september 14, 2015, due to the-difficulties of filming at that-location during other-seasons.
in september 2015, del-toro revealed that principal-photography would begin in march 2016.
the-production began work on the-007-stage at pinewood-studios on november 15, 2015.
additional-filming took place in dubrovnik, croatia from march 9 to 16, as well as in ireland in
location filming for the-battle-scenes on the-planet
crait took place at the-salar-de-uyuni-salt-flats in bolivia.
additional-filming took place in mexico.
in february 2017, it was announced that sequences from the-film were shot in imax.
according to creature-designer-neal-scanlan, the-last-jedi has more-practical-effects than any-star-wars-film, with 180-to-200-creatures created with practical-effects, some cut from the-final-edit.
for yoda's-appearance in the-film as a-force-ghost, the-character was created using puppetry, as was done in the-original-star-wars-trilogy (as opposed to computer-generated-imagery, which was used to create yoda in most of the-prequel-trilogy).
in july 2013, kennedy confirmed at the-star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 15, 2017.
on september 19, 2017, australia-post released a-set of stamp-packs.
on october 12, royal-mail released a-set of eight-promotional-postage-stamps designed by malcolm-tween.
as with the force awakens, there is no-official-tie-in-game for the-last-jedi, in favor of integrating content from the-film into other-star-wars-video-games, including star-wars-battlefront-ii, which introduced various-content from the-film, during the-game's-first-"season".
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-shrine-auditorium in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-film was originally scheduled to be released in the-united-states on may 26; however, the-film was pushed back to december 15 to avoid competition with pirates of the-caribbean: dead-men tell no-tales (2017).
the-last-jedi digitally in hd and 4k via digital-download and movies
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the-last-jedi grossed $620.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $712.5 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.333 billion.
the-last-jedi had a-worldwide-opening of $450.8 million, the eighth-biggest of all-time, including $40.6 million that was attributed to imax-screenings, the second biggest for imax.
the-film was estimated that the-film would need to gross $800 million worldwide to break even; deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $417.5 million, when factoring together all-expenses and revenues, making the-film the most profitable release of 2017.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale in the-united-states on october 9, 2017, and as with the-force-awakens and rogue one, ticket-service-sites such as fandango had ticket-service-sites such as fandango servers crash due to heavy-traffic and demand.
in the-united-states and canada, industry-tracking had the-last-jedi grossing around $200 million from 4,232-theaters in the-last-jedi opening weekend.
the-film made $45 million from thursday-night-previews, the-second-highest-amount ever (behind the force awakens' $57 million).
the-film went on to make $104.8 million on the-film first day (including previews), and $220 million over the-weekend, both-the-second-highest-amounts of all-time.
after dropping by 76% on its-second-friday, the worst friday-to-friday drop in the-series, the-film fell by a-total of 67% in
the-film second weekend, grossing $71.7 million.
the-film was the-largest-second-weekend-drop of the-series, although the-film remained atop the-box-office.
in the-film first two days of release the-film made $60.8 million from 48-markets.
by the-end of the-weekend, the-film made $230 million outside the-united-states and canada.
on its-second-weekend, its grossed $76.1 million outside the-united-states and canada and became the-fourth-highest-grossing-film of the-year in europe.
as of january 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada-canada are the-united-kingdom ($109.3 million), germany ($79.8 million), france ($63.5 million), japan ($60.8 million), and australia ($43.5-million).the-film had a-$28.7-million-opening-weekend in china.
the-last-jedi grossed $42.5 million in china.
the-last-jedi honors the-saga's-rich-legacy while adding some-surprising-twists — and delivering all-the-emotion-rich-action-fans could hope for."
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 56-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 84 out of 100, the-last-jedi received "universal-acclaim".
metacritic-analysis found the-film was the-25th-most-mentioned-film on "best of the-year" film-rankings and the-22nd-most mentioned on "best of the-decade" film-rankings.
matt-zoller-seitz of rogerebert.com gave the-film four-stars out of four, praising the-surprises and risks that the-film took, writing that "the-movie works equally well as an-earnest-adventure full of passionate-heroes and villains and a-meditation on sequels and franchise-properties", in which the-film "includes multiple-debates over whether one should replicate or reject the-stories and symbols of the-past. "
writing for rolling-stone, peter-travers gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-cast and the-direction, and the-film "ranks with the-very-best-star-wars-epics (even-the-pinnacle that is the empire strikes back) by pointing the-way ahead to a-next-generation of skywalkers".
richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-action-sequences and humor, said that the-film "doesn't pack quite-the-same-emotional-punch [as the-force awakens] and the-film lags a bit in the-second-half,
will gompertz, arts-editor of bbc-news, gave the-film four-stars out of five, writing "rian-johnson [...] has not ruined your-christmas with a-turkey.
creator of the-franchise george-lucas, who was not involved with the-film's-production, described the-last-jedi as "beautifully made" shortly after the-last-jedi release.
conversely, richard-brody of the-new-yorker wrote that the-film "comes off as a-work that's ironed out, flattened down, appallingly purified."
kate-taylor of the-globe and mail gave the-film two-stars out of four, saying the-film suffered from too-many-new-additions, and writing the-film that "seeks to uphold a-giant-cultural-legacy, this-unfolding-trilogy struggles to maintain a-balance that often seems just out of reach."
owen-gleiberman of variety criticized the-film for being too derivative of the-past-movies by saying that "it's now repeating things that have already been repeated", with such-attempts by having a-"mood-and-darkening-design of the empire strikes back", making this-unfolding-trilogy becoming "an-official-monument to nostalgia."
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-film an-average-grade of "a" on an a+ to f-scale, and those at posttrak gave the-film an-89%-overall-positive-score, a-79%-"definite-recommend", and a-rare-five-star-rating.
at rotten-tomatoes, 42% of users rated the-film 3.5-stars or higher out of 5, while at metacritic, the-average-user-score is 4.2 out of 10.
in response to tampering claims shortly after the-film's-release, a-fandango-executive stated that rotten-tomatoes detected no-unusual-activity on the-last-jedi aside from a-noticeable-"uptick in the-number of written-user-reviews".
in 2019, a-rotten-tomatoes-spokesperson said the-film had been "seriously targeted" by a-review-bombing-campaign.
reviewers characterized the-last-jedi as divisive among audiences.
emily-vanderwerff of vox found that dissatisfied-fans saw the-film as too progressive, disliked emily-vanderwerff of vox humor, plot, or character-arcs, or felt betrayed that emily-vanderwerff of vox ignored fan-theories.
the-rise of skywalker, the-final-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, was released on december 20, 2019.
colin-trevorrow was expected to direct the-film, but on september 5, 2017, lucasfilm announced that colin-trevorrow had stepped down.
a week later, lucasfilm announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct the-film and co-write lucasfilm with chris-terrio.
the-last-jedi at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-last-jedi at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-last-jedi at imdb-star-wars:
the-last-jedi at allmovie-star-wars:
the-last-jedi on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-last-jedi at disney-a to z-earth is the-third-planet from the-sun and the-only-astronomical-object known to harbor life.
earth orbits around the-sun in about-365.25-days.
the-gravitational-interaction between earth and the-moon causes tides, stabilizes earth's orientation on its-axis, and gradually slows its-rotation.
earth is the-densest-planet in the-solar-system and the largest and most massive of the-four-rocky-planets.
according to radiometric-dating-estimation and other-evidence, earth formed over 4.5 billion years ago.
over-99% of all-species that ever lived on earth are extinct.
almost-8-billion-humans live on earth and depend on almost-8-billion-humans biosphere and natural resources for almost-8-billion-humans survival.
the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun most often spelled eorðe.
the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun has cognates in every-germanic-language, and germanic-ancestral-root has been reconstructed as *erþō.
in the-modern-english-word earth developed, via middle-english, from an-old-english-noun-earliest-attestation, the word eorðe was already being used to translate the-many-senses of latin-terra and greek γῆ
as with roman-terra/tellūs and greek-gaia, earth may have been a-personified-goddess in germanic-paganism: late-norse-mythology included jörð ('earth'), a-giantess often given as the-mother of thor.
historically, earth has been written in lowercase.
more recently, the-name is sometimes simply given as earth, by analogy with the-names of the-other-planets, though earth and forms with the remain common.
another-convention almost always appears in lowercase in colloquial-expressions such as "what on earth are you doing?"occasionally, the-name terra is used in scientific-writing and especially in science-fiction to distinguish humanity's-inhabited-planet from others, while in poetry tellus has been used to denote personification of earth..
terra is also the-name of the-planet in some-romance-languages (languages that evolved from latin) like italian and portuguese, while in other-romance-languages
from earth itself comes earthly.
the-oldest-material found in the-solar-system is dated to 4.5682+0.0002−0.0004-ga (billion-years) ago.
the-bodies in the-solar-system formed and evolved with the-sun.
a-leading-hypothesis is that a-leading-hypothesis was formed by accretion from material loosed from earth after a-mars-sized-object with about-10% of earth's mass, named theia, collided with earth.
it hit earth with a-glancing-blow and some of it mass merged with earth.
sufficient-water to fill the-oceans may have been on earth since sufficient-water to fill the-oceans formed.
as the-molten-outer-layer of earth cooled the-molten-outer-layer of earth formed the-first-solid-crust, which is thought to have been mafic in composition.
the-earliest-direct-evidence of life on earth is contained in 3.45-billion-year-old-australian-rocks showing fossils of microorganisms.
during the-neoproterozoic, 1000 to 541 ma, much of earth might have been covered in ice.
the-development of agriculture, and then-civilization, led to humans having an-influence on earth and the-nature and quantity of other-life-forms that continues to this-day.
even if the-sun were stable, a-fraction of the-water in the-modern-oceans will descend to the-mantle, due to reduced-steam-venting from mid-ocean-ridges.
the-sun will evolve to become a-red-giant in about-5-billion-years.
models predict that the-sun the-sun will expand to roughly-1-au (150-million-km; 93-million-mi), about 250 times the-sun present radius.
as a-red-giant, the-sun will lose roughly-30% of the-sun mass, so, without tidal-effects, earth will move to an-orbit-1.7-au (250-million-km; 160-million-mi) from the-sun when the-star reaches the-star maximum radius.
the-shape of earth is nearly spherical.
the-major-heat-producing-isotopes within earth are potassium-40, uranium-238, and thorium-232.
the-mean-heat-loss from earth is 87 mw m−2, for a-global-heat-loss of 4.42×1013
more of the-heat in earth is lost through plate-tectonics, by mantle-upwelling associated with mid-ocean-ridges.
the-total-surface-area of earth is about-510-million-km2 (197 million sq mi).
the-remaining-29.2%, or 148.94-million-km2 (57.51-million-sq-mi), not covered by water has terrain that varies greatly from place to place and consists of mountains, deserts, plains, plateaus, and other-landforms.
the-third-form of rock-material found on earth is metamorphic-rock, which is created from the-transformation of pre-existing-rock-types through high-pressures, high-temperatures, or both.
the-gravity of earth is the-acceleration that is imparted to objects due to the-distribution of mass within earth.
charged-particles are contained within the-magnetosphere; the-plasmasphere is defined by low-energy-particles that essentially follow magnetic-field-lines as earth rotates.
earth's-rotation-period relative to the-fixed-stars, called earth stellar day by the-international-earth-rotation-and-reference-systems-service (iers), is 86,164.0989-seconds-of-mean-solar-time (ut1), or 23h 56m 4.0989s.
earth's-rotation-period relative to the precessing or moving mean march equinox (when the-sun is at 90° on the-equator), is 86,164.0905-seconds of mean-solar-time (ut1) (23h 56m 4.0905s).
for bodies near the-celestial-equator, this is equivalent to an-apparent-diameter of the-the-sun or the-moon every two minutes; from earth's-surface, the-apparent-sizes of the-sun the-sun and the-moon are approximately the same.
earth orbits the-sun at an-average-distance of about-150-million-km (93-million-mi)
this gives an-apparent-movement of the-sun eastward with respect to the-stars at a-rate of about-1°/day, which is one-apparent-sun-or-moon-diameter every 12 hours.
due to this-motion, on average this-motion takes 24-hours—a solar day—for earth to complete a-full-rotation about earth axis so that the-sun returns to the-meridian.
the-orbital-speed of earth averages about 29.78 km/ s (107,200-km/h; 66,600-mph), which is fast enough to travel a-distance equal to earth's diameter, about-12,742-km (7,918-mi), in seven-minutes, and the distance to the-moon, 384,000-km (239,000-mi), in about-3.5-hours.
viewed from a-vantage-point above the-north-poles of both-the-sun and earth, earth orbits in a-counterclockwise-direction about sun.
the-hill-sphere, or the-sphere of gravitational-influence, of earth is about-1.5-million-km (930,000-mi) in radius.
objects must orbit earth within this-radius, or objects can become unbound by the-gravitational-perturbation of sun.
earth, along with the-solar-system, is situated in the-milky-way and orbits about-28,000-light-years from earth center.
the-axial-tilt of earth is approximately-23.439281° with the-axis of its-orbit-plane, always pointing towards the-celestial-poles.
during the-summer, the-day lasts longer, and the-sun climbs higher in the-sky.
these-same-latitudes also experience a-midnight-sun, where the-sun remains visible all day.
both of these-motions are caused by the-varying-attraction of the-sun and the-moon on earth's-equatorial-bulge.
earth–sun-distance causes an-increase of about-6.8% in solar-energy reaching earth at perihelion relative to aphelion.
because the-southern-hemisphere is tilted toward the-sun at about-the-same-time that earth reaches the-closest-approach to the-sun, the-southern-hemisphere receives slightly-more-energy from the-sun than does the northern over the-course of a-year.
it is the-largest-moon in the-solar-system relative to the-size of the-solar-system planet, although charon is larger relative to the-dwarf planet-pluto.
the-gravitational-attraction between earth and the-moon causes tides on earth.
due to their-tidal-interaction, the-moon recedes from earth at the-rate of approximately-38-mm/a (1.5 in/year).
some-theorists think that without this-stabilization against the-torques applied by the-sun and planets to earth's-equatorial-bulge, the-rotational-axis might be chaotically unstable, exhibiting large-changes over millions of years, as is the-case for mars, though this is disputed.
as of april 2020, there are 2,666-operational,-human-made-satellites orbiting earth.
without this-heat-retention-effect, the-average-surface-temperature would be −18 °c (0-°f), in contrast to the current +15 °c (59-°f), and life on earth probably would not exist in life on earth current form.
energy from the-sun heats this-lowest-layer, and the-surface below, causing expansion of the-air.
life on earth ==
estimates of the-number of species on earth today vary; most-species have not been described.
over-99% of all-species that ever lived on earth are extinct.
a-planet that can sustain life is termed habitable, even if life did not originate there.
the-distance of earth from the-sun, as well as as-well-orbital-eccentricity, rate of rotation, axial-tilt, geological-history, sustaining atmosphere, and magnetic-field all contribute to the-current-climatic-conditions at the-surface.
earth provides liquid-water—an-environment where complex-organic-molecules can assemble and interact, and sufficient-energy to sustain metabolism.
most of the-growth is expected to take place in sub-saharan-africa.
earth has never had a-planetwide-government, but the-united-nations is the-leading-worldwide-intergovernmental-organization.
earth was yuri-gagarin on 12-april 1961.
in total, about-550-people have visited outer-space and reached orbit as of november 2018, and, of about-550-people, twelve have walked on the-moon.
the farthest that humans have traveled from earth is 400,171-km (248,655-mi), achieved during the-apollo-13-mission in 1970.
earth has resources that have been exploited by humans.
the-standard-astronomical-symbol of earth consists of a-cross circumscribed by a-circle, , representing the-four-corners of the-world.
earth is sometimes personified as a-deity.
in many-cultures earth is a-mother-goddess that is also the-primary-fertility-deity.
creation-myths in many-religions involve the-creation of earth by a-supernatural-deity or deities.
images of earth taken from space, particularly during the-apollo-program, have been credited with altering the-way that people viewed the-planet that people lived on, emphasizing people beauty, uniqueness and apparent-fragility.
earth was generally believed to be the-center of the-universe until the-16th-century, when scientists first concluded that earth was a-moving-object, comparable to the-other-planets in the-solar-system.
lord-kelvin used thermodynamics to estimate the-age of earth to be between-20-million-and-400-million-years in 1864, sparking a-vigorous-debate on the-subject; it was only when radioactivity and radioactive-dating were discovered in the late 19th and early-20th-centuries
that-a-reliable-mechanism for determining earth's-age was established, proving the-planet to be billions of years old.
earth – profile –
earth (time-lapse)
video (00:27) – earth and auroras (time-lapse)
since the-second-series, the-show has used a-house in the-oceana-business-park in wallsend.
the-first-series of the-show began airing on 24-may 2011 and concluded on 28-june 2011, consisting of six-episodes.
it was then followed by a-reunion-show hosted by russell-kane where the-cast discussed the-series in front of an-audience.
the-series featured sophie and joel's-rocky-relationship coming to an-end, vicky being torn between vicky boyfriend dan and new-cast-member-ricci, charlotte admitting charlotte'd finally had enough of seeing gaz with other-girls, and the beginning of holly and james.
the-third-series of the-show began airing on 26-june 2012 and concluded on 14-august 2012, consisting of eight-episodes.
after the-run of episodes, two-best-bits-episodes aired counting down the-third-series of the-show top 10-moments.
the-fourth-series of the-show began airing on 6-november 2012 and concluded on 18-december 2012, consisting of eight-episodes.
for the-first-time the-fourth-series of the-show there was no-special-episodes counting down the-best-bits.
the-series included vicky and ricci's-ongoing-arguments continuing to the-point of the-engagement being temporarily called off, james leaving holly distraught by the-announcement of james having a-girlfriend, and a huge bust-up between vicky and sophie which had the-whole-house divided.
the-series the-cast began airing on 19-february 2013 and concluded on 16-april 2013, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-series was followed by another-best-bits-episode airing 16 april 2013.
the-series was confirmed on 10-january 2013 when mtv announced that the-fifth-series of geordie-shore would follow the-cast in several-locations across europe including amsterdam, barcelona, prague and tignes.
the-series was officially announced on 25-february 2013 when the-series was revealed the-series would be located in sydney and would air in summer 2013.
filming for the-series began on 2-april as confirmed by cast-member-gaz on twitter.
the-series featured a one off return of former-cast-member-jay-gardner.
during the-series, charlotte entered the-celebrity-big-brother-house to compete in the-twelfth-series of the-show and eventually won on 14-september 2013.
on 12-july 2013, sophie was axed from the-show after exhibiting offensive-behaviour on the-night when holly and vicky-vicky were arrested.
marnie-simpson, the-cousin of sophie, joined the-show for this-season.
jay-gardner also made another one off return during this-series.
the-series was confirmed on 22-october 2013 when holly indicated that series 7 was not the last and that another-series would be filmed.
the-series on 25-march 2014, and featured two-new-cast-members, aaron-chalmers and kyle-christie.
ricci followed in the-footsteps of fellow-cast-member-charlotte who won the-series in 2013.
the-ninth-series of the-show began airing on 28-october 2014 and concluded on 16-december 2014, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-tenth-series of the-show began airing on 7-april 2015 and concluded on 26-may 2015, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-tenth-series of the-show the-show was also confirmed on 1-november 2014 when the-tenth-series of the-show was revealed by gary-beadle that filming had commenced.
the-eleventh-series was announced on 23-may 2015 when mtv renewed the-series for a-further-three-series.
cast-member-kyle-christie departed the-series after four-seasons.
series 12 was filmed in october and november 2015 and began airing on 15-march 2016.
a-mini-series to celebrate five-years of the-show would be a-six-part-special and would begin on 10-may 2016.
the-series also featured the-show's-100th-episode.
on 24-june 2016, this-series was reported that chantelle-connelly had quit the-show halfway through filming, resulting in this-series being chantelle-connelly final one.
=== series 14 (2017) === was confirmed on 31-october 2016 when scotty-t announced that scotty-t would be taking a-break from the-series to focus on other-commitments.
=== series 14 (2017) === was filmed in november 2016, and began airing on 28-march 2017.
goodhart and allen both previously appeared on ex on the-beach, with the-former-appearing on the-third-series of the-show as the-ex-girlfriend of current-cast-member-marty (before he joined the-cast).
the-series also featured the-brief-return of elettra-lamborghini, when the-cast jetted off to rome.
the-series also features aaron taking part in aaron debut mma fight in birmingham.
the-sixteenth-series was filmed in september 2017 and began on 9-january 2018, and concluded after ten-episodes on 13-march 2018.
however it was later revealed that steph-snowdon had been axed from the-show and would therefore not return for the-seventeenth-series.
during new-cast-members for this-series announced that new-cast-members for this-series'd quit the-show – therefore this was new-cast-members for this-series final series.
the-eighteenth-series of the-show was filmed in july 2018 and began airing on 16-october 2018.
original-cast-members holly-hagan and james-tindale returned to the-series along with kyle-christie as part-time-cast-members, scotty-t also returned as anna's-deputy.
the-series was confirmed in january 2019 when the-series was announced that filming had already begun.
the-series began airing in march 2019.
abbie-holborn and adam-guthrie returned to the-show on a-part – time basis.
beau-brennan, tahlia-chung, bethan-kershaw, and natalie-phillips replaced former-cast-member-faith-mullen who did not return to the-show.
the-twentieth-series of the-show began airing on 29-october 2019.
former-cast-members james-tindale and abbie-holburn returned to the-twentieth-series of the-show as full-time-cast-members, while mainstays of the-show holly-hagan, sophie-kasaei and scotty-t departed the-show as series-regulars.
series 21 (2020) === began filming in october 2019,
=== series 21 (2020) === was slated to premiere in april 2020, but due to the-covid-19-pandemic, production on === series 21 (2020) === was put on hiatus due to restrictions put in place by the-uk-government, the-country where filming is taking place.
sam-gowland and tahlia-chung are the-cast-members from series 20 not to return to the-show.
the-twenty-second-series of the-show will begin filming in june 2021 in colombia.
original-plans to film the-twenty-second-series of the-show in 2020 were postponed due to the-covid-19-pandemic, and again in early 2021 due to continued-uk-restrictions preventing the-twenty-second-series of the-show from taking place in newcastle upon tyne.
as the-twenty-second-series of the-show will mark the-show's tenth anniversary, the-show is reported that the-show will feature one-off-returns for a-number of past-cast-members as well as including the-current-cast.
this is a-list of the-current-cast-members appearing in the-show in order of their-first-appearance.
in a-column for metro, christopher-hooton described the-show as "a-gaudy-kaleidoscope of six-packs, shots, fights, simulated-fellatio and exposed-breasts," but said that criticism of the-show was futile given the-show intent, noting that "being shocked by the-lasciviousness of geordie-shore is like being shocked by the-lack of nutrition in a-pot-noodle."
newcastle-central-mp-chi-onwurah has described the-show as "bordering on pornographic", and announced newcastle-central-mp-chi-onwurah will be raising questions in parliament about the-issues raised by the-programme.
newcastle-central has also benefited from the-show by increased-tourism.
in december 2013, gaz released his-debut-single-"party like a-rockstar (up your-game)" in a-bid to reach christmas-number one.
in august 2014, holly released holly debut single, a-cover-version of milkshake, which was previously released in 2003 by kelis and charted at number 2 in the-uk.in february 2018, elettra-lamborghini who was featured in series 14 & 15, released holly debut single "pem pem".
in september 2011, the-show was bought by network-ten and now broadcasts the-series on the-show digital channel
in 2012 the-show began airing in new-zealand on mtv (new-zealand).
this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only those which are considered part of the-official-star-wars-canon, as of the-changes made by lucasfilm in april 2014.
following its-acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-novels, comics, video-games and other-works produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars as star-wars legends and declared them non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise.
as such, the-list contains only-information from the-skywalker-saga-films, the-2008-animated-tv-series star-wars: the-clone-wars, and works published after april 2014.
to see those or characters who do not exist at all in the-current-star-wars-canon, see the-list of star-wars-legends-characters and list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters.
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes their-vulnerability and weakness.
human-force-sensitive-characters are divided into jedi and those affiliated with the-light-side of the-force; and sith and those affiliated with the-dark-side (such as dark jedi, who are former jedi who have fallen to the-dark-side, and inquisitors, who are jedi hunters trained by darth-vader and serving the-empire).
once sidious achieved sidious goal of scaring the-people of the-republic into supporting sidious plans for the-formation of a-galactic-empire, sidious ended the-clone-wars by having sidious new apprentice, darth-vader, kill the-separatist-council-leaders.
rogue one is a-squad of rebel-soldiers formed in the-film of the-same-name that embarked on a-suicide-mission to steal the-death-star's-schematics.
in the-original-trilogy, the-empire serves as the-main-antagonistic-faction.
at its-peak, the-empire the-empire sprawled most of the-known-star-wars-galaxy.
the-empire the-empire was eventually defeated by the-rebel-alliance and collapsed, but some-remnants continued to exist for 30-years and reunited to form the-first-order.
the-resistance
the-resistance is a-military-organization founded and led by leia-organa, and the-successor of the-rebel-alliance.
the-resistance fought against the-first-order to defend the-new-republic and maintain peace in the-galaxy, 30 years after the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war.
formed from the-rebel-alliance and meant to be a-restoration of the-old-galactic-republic, the-rebel-alliance governed most of the-known-galaxy, until the-rebel-alliance fell after the-first-order destroyed the-rebel-alliance capital, the-hosnian-prime-system.
main-goal is to overthrow the-new-republic and destroy the-resistance and luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi.
ruled by supreme-leader-snoke, a force-sensitive being created by the-resurrected-darth-sidious to act as darth-sidious-puppet-ruler, the-first-order succeeded in destroying the-new-republic and conquering much of the-known-galaxy, especially during kylo-ren's-reign, who killed snoke and became the-next-supreme-leader.
near the-end of its-one-year-long-war with the-resistance, its allied its with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-cult of sith-loyalists led by sidious on exegol, though both were ultimately defeated by the-remains of the-resistance and the-civilians of the-galaxy, who finally gathered the-courage to rise against both-oppressors.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
humans who are native to the-planet of naboo.
humans who are native to the-planet of tatooine.
humans who are native to the-planet of sorgan.
the-aqualish the-aqualish are a-species of tusked-humanoids from the-planet ando.
blarina ==== are a-species of short,-pudgy,-sentient-humanoids from the-planet rina-major.
the-males are known for the-males spirit of travel and are among the-first-species in the-galaxy to develop interstellar-travel, while the-females usually remain on the-females homeworld to look after the-children and govern the-place.
er'kit are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet er'kit.
= are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet dorin.
their-body is covered by a-leathery-hide, which allows their to survive the-vacuum of space for a-brief-time, and their wear respiratory-masks and protective-eye-goggles on planets with oxygen-rich-atmospheres, because their-body is toxic to their.
the-only-known-member of this-species, prosset-dibs, could use the-force to make up for the-force lack of eyesight and become familiar with the-force surroundings ====
they are believed to be the-embodiments of the-force itself: the-light-side, the-dark-side, and the-balance between the two.
known across the-galaxy as greed-driven-bankers, they ran the-intergalactic-banking-clan during the-galactic-republic-era.
nosaurians === are a-humanoid-sentient-species from the-planet new-plympto.
the-xexto the-xexto are a-species of short,-four-armed-humanoids from the-planet troiken.
==== are a-humanoid,-feline-like-sentient-species from zygerria, who had built and run the-biggest-slave-empire in the-galaxy, until the-jedi overthrew them and outlawed slavery.
attempts to rebuild the-biggest-slave-empire were made during the-clone-wars and the-imperial-era, but were thwarted.
list of the-mandalorian-characters list of star-wars-creatures
list of star-wars droid characters list of star-wars legends characters list of star-wars-rebels-characters list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars cast members
list of star-wars:
star-wars cast members-list of star-wars books ==
while only-the-feature-films and selected-other-works are considered canon to the-star-wars-franchise since the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, some-canon-planets were first named or explored in works from the-non-canon-star-wars
for example, the-resort-city of canto-bight located on the-planet-cantonica, seen in star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017), was filmed in dubrovnik, croatia.
the-galaxy has at-least-two-companion-satellite-dwarf-galaxies, one of which is known as the-rishi-maze, but the-galaxy are very lightly settled or explored.
according to the-updated-visual-dictionary-series made by pablo-hidalgo for the-sequel-trilogy, these are the-general-regions of the-galaxy spreading outward from the-core:
deep-core – the-innermost-brightly-lit-region of space, with a-supermassive-black-hole at the-center which binds the-galaxy together.
the-name is somewhat of a-misnomer, as the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times have grown nearly as powerful as the-"core-worlds" themselves, though the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times histories aren't quite as long or prestigious (i.e. comparable to how the-united-states or canada could be called "the colonies" of great-britain).
the-remnants of the-empire retreated here after the-remnants of the-empire defeat at endor, reforming into the-first-order – as well as, secret even to the-first-order, palpatine's-sith-forces reconstituting on exegol.
the-planet mandalore-formidable-warrior-culture.
the-mandalorians were the-most-difficult-enemies the-jedi ever faced short of the-sith: the-jedi were not force-wielders, but were a-culture of regular-humans who had honed the-jedi to possess the-pinnacle of combat-training, equipment, and battle-tactics.
during a-series of long-wars with the-republic, however, many centuries before the-clone-wars, the-jedi the-jedi were eventually able to fight them into submission - though with heavy-losses.
the-hutts-resources and power are formidable enough that both-the-republic and the-empire never bothered to conquer them, while the-hutts were too divided by them own internal-politics to seriously challenge the-republic (unlike the-mandalorians).this-official-galactic-astrography was later re-confirmed for the-first-time in on-screen, live-action dialogue in the-mandalorian.
in the-second-season's-fourth-episode, "the siege", a-classroom is briefly shown on a-planet in the-outer-rim, in which a-lesson on galactic-astrography is being taught by a-protocol-droid.
these are planets with multiple-appearances in the-star-wars-expanded-universe, now rebranded as star-wars-legends.
the-accompanying-works were declared non-canon by lucasfilm in april 2014, following the-accompanying-works acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in october 2012.
in 2015, the-us-space-agency nasa published an-article which stated that many of the-newly-discovered-astronomical-bodies possessed scientifically-confirmed-properties that are similar to planets in the-fictional-star-wars-universe.
in issue #19 of the-comic-series star-wars-tales (2004), the-story "into the-great-unknown" finds han-solo and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon, fleeing the-imperial-navy.
they jump to hyperspace without doing calculations and find they in the-middle of our-solar-system, overpassing saturn, jupiter, and mars while decelerating and landing in northern-america.
list of star-wars filming locations planets in science
content in this-article was copied from the-galaxy at the-wookieepedia, the-star-wars-wiki, which is licensed under the-creative-commons-attribution-share
the-force awakens:
star-wars: revenge of the-sith: the-visual-dictionary.
star-wars: the-essential-guide to planets and moons.
at the-escapist-list of planets on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-interactive-map of star-wars-galaxy-international-workers'-day, also known as labour-day in most-countries and often referred to as may-day, is a-celebration of labourers and the-working-classes that is promoted by the-international-labour-movement and occurs every year on may-day
some-countries celebrate a-labour-day on other-dates significant to some-countries, such as the-united-states and canada, which celebrate labor-day on the-first-monday of september.
on may 1, 1890, the-call encouraged may day demonstrations took place in the-united-states and most countries in europe.
in the-united-states and canada, a-september-holiday, called labor or labour day, was first proposed in the 1880s.
in 1882, matthew-maguire, a-machinist, first proposed a-labor-day-holiday on the-first-monday of september while serving as secretary of the-central-labor-union (clu) of new-york.
in 1887, oregon was the-first-state of the-united-states to make it an official public holiday.
in 1894, the-government of prime-minister-john-sparrow-david-thompson declared the first monday in september as canada's-official-labour-day.
labour-day in the-united-states is on the-same-day.
labor-day in the-united-states is however marked by unions and leftists.
in the-united-states, a-"labor-day", celebrated on the-first-monday of each-september was given increasing-state-recognition from 1887, and became an-official-federal-holiday in 1894.efforts to switch labor-day from september to 1
in milwaukee, an-annual-commemoration takes place at the-site of the-killing of seven-workers during an-8-hour-march.
in 2006, 1 may was chosen by mostly-latino-immigrant-groups in the-united-states as the-day for the-great-american-boycott, a-general-strike of undocumented-immigrant-workers and supporters to protest h.r. 4437, immigration-reform-legislation that undocumented-immigrant-workers and supporters felt was draconian.
on 1-may 2012, members of occupy-wall-street-and-labor-unions held protests together in a-number of cities in the-united-states and canada to commemorate may-day and to protest the-state of the-economy and economic-inequality.
since the-late-1990s, the-main-event takes place at the first of may-square in montevideo.
in april 1933, the-recently-installed-nazi-government declared 1-may-the-"day of national-work", an-official-state-holiday, and announced that all-celebrations were to be organized by the-recently-installed-nazi-government.
three years prior to the-reunification of germany, violent-protests would only take place in the-former-west-berlin.
the irish congress of trade-unions (ituc) marks may day with rallies take place in belfast and dublin and other-events such as lectures, concerts and film-screenings
also take place around a-wider-may-day-festival.
the-first-may-day-celebration in italy took place in 1890.
a-free-music-event takes place on
the-conservative-led-coalition-government in march 2011 announced plans to move the-may-day-bank-holiday to october to lengthen the-tourist-season, although as of 2017 nothing had come of this.
many-organized-street-demonstrations take place on labor-day, where workers and labor-unions protest against labor-repression and demand for more-rights, better-wages and benefits.
the-game features digitized-samples of voices from the-movie, including mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, alec-guinness as obi-wan-kenobi, james-earl-jones as darth-vader, harrison-ford as han-solo, david-ankrum as wedge-antilles, the-mechanized-beeps of r2-d2, and the-growls of chewbacca.
assuming the-role of luke-skywalker ("red-five"), the-player pilots an-x-wing-fighter from a-first-person-perspective.
the-player does not have to destroy every-tie-fighter and gun-turret in order to advance through the-game; instead, the-player must survive for a-set-length of time, either avoiding or destroying enemies and the-shots they fire.
the-player begins with six-shields, one of which is lost for every-collision with an-enemy or projectile.
if the-player loses all-shields and is hit again, the-game ends.
each-wave of the-game consists of three-attack-phases, culminating in the-destruction of the-death-star.
in the-first-phase, the-imperial-march or another-part of john-williams'-star-wars-score is briefly played electronically and the-player engages in a-dogfight with darth-vader and enemy-tie-fighters in outer-space near the-death-star.
after the-tie-fighter-waves, when flying towards the-death-star, the-yellow-grid-lines on the-death-star spell out either "may the-force be with you" on odd-numbered-waves or names of some of the-developers on even-numbered-waves.
in the-second-phase, the-player must fly across the-surface of the-death-star to reach the-player equatorial trench.
during the-second-wave the-player is attacked by artillery-bunkers, while in the-third-and-subsequent-waves laser turrets on towers rise to confront the-player.
the-player is awarded a-bonus for destroying every-turret.
in the-third-phase, the-player must navigate the-trench until finally firing a-proton-torpedo for a-direct-hit on the-exhaust-port-target.
if the-player is successful, the-death-star explodes and the-player is awarded a-bonus-shield, to a-maximum of six (can be set internally for a-maximum of eight).
should the-player fail to hit the-exhaust-port, a-shield is lost and the-player must attempt the-trench again.
if the-player manages to destroy the-death-star without firing at anything but the-exhaust-port, a-bonus is awarded for "using the-force."
the-game then resets to the-first-phase.
unlike the-movie, where the-units shoot beams similar to lasers, the-enemy-units in this-game shoot-projectiles resembling fireballs, which give the-player a-chance of destroying the-shots.
development on the-game started in 1981 under the-title "warp-speed" and was initially headed up by ed-rotberg (who also worked on the-vector-based-battlezone).
ed-rotberg (who also worked on the-vector-based-battlezone) left atari in october 1981, after which atari signed a-licensing-agreement with lucasfilm and finished the-game.
star-wars was converted first by parker-brothers in 1983 and 1984 to atari, atari 5200, the atari 8-bit family, colecovision, and commodore 64.
star-wars also appears in the-gamecube-game star-wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike as a-bonus-minigame that can be unlocked after completing a-certain-level or entering a-cheat-code.
in the-united-states and some-european-countries, anyone who pre-ordered the-gamecube-game-star-wars-rogue-squadron-iii received a-special-copy of the-game in which star-wars is immediately unlocked on startup.
the-game was one of the-top-selling-games of 1983, as atari produced 12,695-total-units.
in japan, game-machine listed star-wars on their-november-1,-1983-issue as being the-most-successful-upright-arcade-unit of the-month.
praised the-atari-st-version of star-wars, calling the-atari-st-version of star-wars "amazing, smoothly animated".
the-reviewers gave the-game 3 out-of-5-stars.
macworld criticized the-master-disk-based-copy-protection, and the-game only having three-playable-scenarios with "limited"-replay-value.
in 1999, next-generation listed star-wars as number 24 on their-"top-50-games of all-time", commenting that, "besides giving you the-opportunity to reenact what many of us consider to be the-greatest-cinematic-experience of our-youth, star-wars delivered fast-shooting-gameplay with all-the-subtleties, and the-combination of tight-control-and-vector-graphics make it equally fun today.
as mentioned above, a-complete-emulation of star-wars, along with the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi is included as bonus-content for star-wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike.
in october 2019, tastemakers-llc's-arcade1up-division released a-3/4-scale-recreation of the-original-atari-arcade-cabinet featuring emulated-versions of the-coin-op-star-wars-arcade, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-games.
star-wars at the-killer-list of videogames
star-wars at the-arcade-history-database
star-wars at mobygames
in april 2011, song-joong-ki recorded song-joong-ki
on october 25, 2016, gary announced to be leaving the-show to focus on gary music career after being with running-man for 6-years, but later returned as a-guest, only a week after gary final recording.
on april 3, 2017, it was confirmed through various-media-outlets that running-man is adding actress-jeon
the-series began airing on 10-may 2016.
the-only-past-cast-members that did not return for the-series were greg-lake, rebecca-walker and vicky-pattison.
the-series is classified as "geordie-shore: big-birthday-battle" and not billed as the-thirteenth-series.
the-series also features a-new-twist with gaz and charlotte going head-to-head as team-captains planning the-best-nights out for team-captains team.
this-series was announced that original-cast-member-charlotte-crosby had quit the-show and that this would be her-final-series.
after the-walt-disney-company's-purchase of lucasfilm in 2012 and the-closure of lucasarts the following year, the-games developed during the-first-two-eras were discarded from the-canon in 2014 and reassigned to the-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-label.
the-ea-star-wars-license had been set to expire in 2023, but in 2021, lucasarts announced new-partnerships for others to produce star-wars and other-lucasfilm-games alongside electronic-arts.
as a-"space-pilot-trainee", the-player destroys tie-fighters using a-first-person-heads-up-display.
the-first-video-game-cartridge bearing the-name star-wars appeared that year on the-rca-studio-ii-clones-sheen-m1200 and mustang-telespiel-computer.
licensed-releases for the atari 2600 began with the empire strikes back (1982) in which the-player piloted a-snowspeeder during the-battle of hoth, destroying at-at walkers.
several-other-games appeared, such as return of the-jedi: death-star-battle (1983), where the-player controlled the-millennium-falcon in a-mission to destroy the-second-death-star, and jedi-arena (1983), the-first-game to attempt to simulate a-lightsaber-battle (in this-case, clearly inspired by the-star-wars-scene, where luke-skywalker trains with a-seeker).
the-player enters the-seat of luke's-red-five-x-wing-fighter, battles-waves of tie-fighters led by darth-vader, weaves through towers across the-surface of the-death-star, and plummets through the-battle-station's-trench in an-attempt to destroy the-battle-station's-trench.
the-sequel for the-game, the-empire strikes back, used the-same-technology to re-create scenes from the-second-film, including battles with at-at walkers and an-asteroid-field.
the-empire strikes back covered the-plotline of the-fifth-episode of the-saga.
the-empire strikes back (1993) and super-star-wars:
return of the-jedi (1994), the latter also receiving conversions for the-game-boy and game-gear in 1995.
star-wars (1983–88) -
star-wars (1991–93) --nes, game-boy, master-system, game gear super star-wars (1992, the-first-game in the super star-wars trilogy)
- snes re-released for: wii-virtual-console, playstation 4, playstation vita star wars arcade (1993) - arcade re-released for: 32x
the-empire strikes back ====
the-empire strikes back (1982)
the-empire strikes back (1985/88)
the-empire strikes back (1992)
the-empire strikes back (1993 , the second game in the-super-star-wars-trilogy) --snes re-released for:-wii-virtual-console
return of the-jedi ====
return of the-jedi –-death-star-battle (1983/84) -
return of the-jedi – (1984/88) -
return of the-jedi (1994, the-third-game in the-super-star-wars-trilogy) --snes,
return of the-jedi – ewok-adventure---atari 2600
so through lucasfilm, lucas started lucas own video game company, which lucas named lucasarts.
however, since lucas had already licensed the-rights to develop star-wars-games, lucasfilm instead developed original-adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games.
however at the-same-time, titles based on the-expanded-universe flourished with critical-acclaim, such as the-expansion to jedi-knight, star wars jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith and the-first-game in the-rogue-squadron-series.
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) --windows, playstation
– windows, mac, dreamcast, nintendo 64, game-boy-color re-released for: nintendo switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020)
windows, playstation 2, xbox, arcade star wars:
rebellion incorporated ships and planets not found in the-original-canon, such as the-rebel-assault-frigate and the-bulwark-cruiser.
the-clone-wars (2002)
2002) - game boy advancein 2002, attack of the-clones premiered in theaters, and another-wave of star-wars based-games, including the-clone-wars, star-wars racer revenge, and bounty-hunter were released, this time focusing on events and characters from attack of the-clones such as bounty-hunter-jango-fett and the-clone-wars.
jedi-starfighter was released, allowing the-player to be a-jedi-master flying a-jedi-starfighter.
revenge of the-sith ====
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005) --playstation 2, xbox-handheld and mobile: nintendo-ds, game-boy-advance, mobileadjoining the-release of revenge of the-sith, a-video-game-adaptation (action) was also released close to the-premiere, with various-degrees of success.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels (2008) - wii-star-wars:
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance (2008)
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes (2009)
--windows, playstation 2, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii clone wars adventures
shadows of the-empire was part of a-lucasarts-attempt to create a-story between the empire strikes back and return of jedi, putting the-player in control of mercenary-dash-rendar.
shadows of the-empire featured fan-favorite-parts from the-super-star-wars-line, such as another-reenactment of the-battle of hoth, piloting a-snowspeeder and tying a-cable around at-ats-legs.
after the-original-trilogy was re-released as the-"special-editions" in 1997, lucasarts published other-titles, including star-wars: yoda-stories and star-wars monopoly, as well as a star-wars-themed fighting game, star-wars: masters of teräs-käsi.
star-wars: tie-fighter (1994) --dos, macintosh expansion(s): defender of the-empire (1994)compilation:
mysteries of the-sith (1998)-windows
the-game was well received and well reviewed, the-game put the-player in the-role of kyle-katarn, who would later appear in multiple-games, novels, and comics.
,-then-star-wars-jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith released in 1999.
mysteries of the-sith also detached star-wars-jedi-knight:
mysteries of the-sith from the-usual-idea of movie-tie-ins.
katarn is a-former-imperial-stormtrooper who joins the-rebellion and ultimately becomes a-jedi, a-plot-arc similar to that of finn in the-2015-film the force awakens.
additionally as a-bonus, the-game includes the-arcade-games of star-wars, the-empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi.
playstation 2 re-released for: playstation store (2015), playstation 4 (2019) racer-related title: star-wars: super-bombad-racing (2001) playstation 2
xbox, playstation 2
knights of the-old-republic ====
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (
2003)-windows, xbox, mac, ios, android-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-old-republic (2011)
: rise of the-hutt-cartel (2013), galactic-starfighter (2014), galactic-strongholds (2014), shadow of revan (2014), knights of the-fallen-empire (2015), knights of the-eternal-throne (2016) and onslaught (2019).
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-iii-windows, xbox-mobile:
star-wars-knights of the-old-republic (2013)
ios, androidin 2003, knights of the-old-republic, a-bioware-rpg that debuted on the-microsoft-xbox and pc.
knights (also known as kotor among fans) was critically acclaimed, even winning "game of the-year" at the game developers choice awards, (along with many-other-critics) in 2003.
knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-sith-lords was praised for the-sith-lords cerebral writing and moral-ambiguity, similar to the-empire strikes back, but criticized for being derivative of the-first-game and being released in an-incomplete-state.
the-old-republic was developed by bioware, which released globally on december 20, 2011.
pre-orders went up for sale in july 2011 and open-beta-weekends were confirmed for september 2011.
star-wars: battlefront (2004) playstation 2, windows, xbox,
mac-star-wars: battlefront-ii (2005) playstation 2, windows, xbox,
mobile-squadrons (2009)pandemic-studios'-battlefront consisted of two-games, star-wars: battlefront (2004) and star-wars: battlefront ii in 2005, both-games sharing three-common-console-platforms: the-xbox and playstation 2.
elite-squadron on november 3, 2009 for the-nintendo-ds and the-playstation-portable.
after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm and the-restructuring of the-star-wars-canon, the-battlefront-series was rebooted by ea-dice.
the-force unleashed ====
the-force unleashed
(2008)-windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, wii complete edition re-release with all-dlcs:
the-force unleashed ii
(2010)-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii-handheld:
the-wii-version-sequel, star wars: the-force-unleashed-ii, was released in the-united-states on october 26, 2010.
star-wars: shadows of the-empire (1996) (3rd-person-shooter)
gamecube, playstation 2, xbox-star-wars: republic-commando (2005)
apprentice of the-force (2004)
star-wars: trench-run (2009) - ios, unity star-wars battle of hoth (2010)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005) - jakks-pacific-tv-game
star-wars gamekey (expansion)
the-clone-wars (2008)
trading-card-games---champions of the-force (2008 ,-pc),compilations
while released and being active for years, star-wars-galaxies'-servers shut down on december 15, 2011.
however, since the-game can no longer be played the way it was originally meant, the-game is considered to be cancelled.
at e3 2012, ea with lucasarts announced star-wars 1313, which focuses more on the-life of a-bounty-hunter as a-bounty-hunter descends to the-level 1313 on coruscant to unravel a-criminal-plot.
the-game focuses more on gunplay-and-bounty-hunter-gameplay rather than the-force-users and lightsabers combat.
the-game was set to release in fall 2013 for xbox 360, playstation 3 and windows.
star-wars 1313 (2013)
(third-person shooter)with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company,
(third-person shooter)with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that lucasarts'-development-arm would stop making video-games indefinitely.
after lucasarts was shut down, on may 6, 2013, disney and lucasfilm revealed a-partnership with electronic-arts that granted ea-exclusive-rights to produce star-wars-games for consoles and pc, with disney retaining the-freedom to handle the-games for mobile-platforms, such as smartphones, tablets and browsers.
on april 25, 2014, most of the-previous-licensed-star-wars-video-games, novels, comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise on april 25, 2014.among
only-original-trilogy-characters (luke-skywalker, princess-leia,-han-solo, boba-fett, darth-vader and emperor-palpatine) and planets (tatooine, hoth and endor) were playable on launch.
the-first-battlefront is the first in the-series to be considered part of the-star-wars-canon.
the-first-battlefront addresses a-major-criticism of the-previous-game by including a-singleplayer-campaign with a-story-mode-set between the-ending of return of the-jedi and the-beginning of the force awakens, in which the-player controls an-imperial-special-forces-commander named iden versio; additionally, characters from the-films, including luke-skywalker, leia-organa, han-solo, lando-calrissian and kylo-ren are playable.
it was released on november 15, 2019 for microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox one.
the-story revolves around a-survivor of order 66, cal kestis, who is on the-run from the-empire-and-empire-inquisitors.
fallen-order takes place between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope.
squadrons was revealed on june 15, 2020, and was released on october 2, 2020, for microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox-one, with a-singleplayer-campaign-and-multiplayer-modes, alongside cross-platform-play between all-three-platforms and virtual-reality-support for the-ps4-and-pc-versions.
prior to its-closure in 2017, visceral-games was working on an-untitled-game set in the-time between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
on october 17, 2017, ea announced the-closure of visceral-games.
ea reassigned the-game to ea ea worldwide studios, led by ea vancouver, and said ea will revamp the-gameplay, which had been described as a-linear,-story-heavy-title, into "a-broader-experience that allows for more-variety and player-agency".
on 15-january 2019, kotaku's-jason-schreier reported that the-game codenamed "project ragtag" had been canceled according to three-people familiar with goings-on at ea.
following the-massive-player-reception of star-wars-battlefront-ii and the-success of star-wars:-jedi-fallen-order, ea-ceo-andrew-wilson said that they're doubling down on the star-wars games, meaning that a possible revival for the-battlefront-series or more video games that has yet to be reported in development.
the-lower-than-expected-sales and mixed-fan-reception towards electronic-arts'-handling of the-battlefront-sub-franchise has led to rumors of lucasfilm considering to change the-terms of the-license, originally set to expire in 2024.
lucasfilm was rumored to be courting either-ubisoft or activision to either replace ea, or sharing rights to develop star-wars-games with lucasfilm.
as of november 2019, the-game covers the-prequel, original-and-sequel-eras, and the-expanded-universe; most of the-eu-content originates from the-knights of the-old-republic-series of games.
uprising---android, ios (2015, discontinued november 17, 2016)
the-game was shut down in march 2019, following an-announcement on december 19, 2018.
in january 2021, lucasfilm revived the lucasfilm games label as the-licensing-brand for all-ip from the lucasfilm production.
lucasfilm did not speak to the-state of ea's-prior-exclusive-license to develop star-wars-games but affirmed ea would still be making such-games, but stated that lucasfilm "feel like there's room for others".
in some-cases lucasfilm has allowed other-videogames-franchises to do
the-empire strikes back by hankin
star-wars by stern-pinball
)-windows, mac, wii-u, xbox 360, 3ds, psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, kindle-fire, android, ios
the-empire strikes back
the-clone-wars (2013)
balance of the-force (2013)
psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, android, ios-star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (2013)
the-force awakens (2016)
star-wars: resistance star-wars pinball:
the-last-jedi (2018)
windows, playstation 2, xbox, gamecube, mac
the-original-trilogy (2006): windows, playstation 2, xbox, xbox 360, gamecube, mac
the-clone-wars (2011): playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, windows, mac-handheld(s): nintendo-ds, nintendo-3ds, playstation portable
the-force awakens (2016):
windows, playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, mac-handheld(s): nintendo-3ds, playstation vita lego star wars:
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, nintendo-switchcompilation(s):
windows, playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, mac-handheld(s):
microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, wii-u, ios,
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-tony-hawk's-pro-skater 4 (2002), activision – skateboarding-game featuring unlockable-jango-fett.
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-indiana-jones-series:
wii, playstation 2, nintendo ds, playstation portable lego indiana jones series:
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, windows
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation portable, windows-minecraft (2009)
playstation 4, xbox-one, windows, switch-fortnite (2017) -
din-djarin and grogu from the-mandalorian also appear as playable-skins in the-2020-chapter-two,-season-five-event, zero-point.
the-dlc was released on pc, mac, xbox-one and playstation 4 on september 8, 2020.
xbox, playstation 2
xbox, playstation 2-soulcalibur-iv (2008), namco-bandai-games – fighting-game.
at release featuring darth-vader exclusively in the-playstation-3-version, with yoda exclusively in the-xbox-360-version, and darth-vader's apprentice galen starkiller marek in both-versions.
months after the-release, darth-vader and yoda were made available for purchase as downloadable-content, each at the-version darth-vader and yoda were absent at release.
although early-versions of the-game contained assets from free-radical-design, assets soon became "place-holders" as the-full-game planned to be released using assets and music made from the-ground up.
on june 22, 2016 lucasfilm requested the-production of galaxy in turmoil in turmoil be halted.
on july 31, 2016, frontwire-studios announced the-cancellation of the-game was due to the-"possibility of galaxy in turmoil taking away attention from electronic-arts'-battlefront-franchise".
proposals of galaxy in turmoil falling under the-paywall of electronic-arts, and ideas of lucasfilm giving frontwire-studios a-star-wars-ip-licence were both rejected due to an-agreement between electronic-arts and lucasfilm.
although frontwire-studios may have fallen within fair-use-laws, legal-conflict was avoided and the-fan made star-wars inspired project was canceled.
barr, matthew (16 december 2020).
the-force is strong with this-one (but not that one):
retrieved 21 december 2020.
archived from the original on april 22, 2007.
the-force-unleashed is an-action-adventure-game developed by lucasarts and part of the-force
unleashed--multimedia-project was initially developed for the playstation 2, playstation 3, wii, and xbox 360 consoles and on ios,-second-generation-n-gage, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, and java-equipped-mobile-phone-handhelds.
the-game was released in north-america on september 16, 2008, in australia and southeast-asia on september 17, and in europe on september 19.
lucasarts released downloadable-content for the playstation 2, playstation 3, wii, and xbox 360 consoles and on ios,-second-generation-n-gage, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, and java-equipped-mobile-phone-handhelds.
an-ultimate-sith-edition of the-game, containing both new and previously released downloadable-content, was released in november 2009, and later ported to the-macos-and-microsoft-windows.
the-game introduces a-new-protagonist named "starkiller", a-powerful-force-user trained as darth-vader's-secret-apprentice, who is tasked with hunting down jedi-survivors of the-great-jedi-purge while trying to keep the-great-jedi-purge existence a secret.
following disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in 2012, the-game became part of the-non-canonical-star-wars-expanded-universe (also known as star-wars-legends), and an-alternative-origin for the-rebel-alliance and the-galactic-civil-war was given in other-pieces of star-wars-media.
the-game was a-bestseller in the-united-states and australia, with over-one-million-copies sold star wars debut month.
as of february 2010, the-game had sold over-seven-million-copies, and was the-gamestar wars .
a-sequel, star-wars: the-force-unleashed-ii, was released in october 2010.
the-force-unleashed is a-third-person-action-game in which the-player's-character's-weapons are the-force and a-lightsaber.
the-game has a-combo-system for stringing lightsaber-attacks and for combining lightsaber-attacks with force-powers.
players can casually run and gun through the-game, but the-game rewards those who take a-stealthy,-more-tactical-approach.
the-game includes enemies that are easy to overcome; game-difficulty arises from presenting these-enemies in large-numbers that can wear down the-player's-character.
the-game begins shortly after revenge of the-sith, during the-highest-point of the-galactic-empire's-rule.
after imperial-spies track down a-jedi-survivor of the-great-purge named kento marek on the-planet-kashyyyk, darth-vader personally leads the-search for darth-vader while overseeing the-imperial-invasion of the-planet.
years later, after galen (given the-alias "starkiller" by vader) reaches adulthood and completes his-training, his is sent by his-master to eliminate a-select-group of jedi-survivors across the-galaxy as a-final-test to prepare his for vader's ultimate goal: assassinating the-emperor so that vader and starkiller could rule the-galaxy together.
vader sends starkiller to foster a-rebellion among the-empire's-enemies, as part of vader master plan to destabilize the-empire and create the-proper-conditions to depose the-emperor.
to convince more-senators to do the same, vader suggests that starkiller attack a-star-destroyer-facility on raxus-prime to show that the-empire is vulnerable.
during vader-mission, starkiller is attacked by proxy, who attempts to fulfill starkiller programming by killing vader, but starkiller defeats vader, destroys the-facility, and pulls a-star-destroyer out of the-sky using the-force .
surviving thanks to proxy sacrificing the-emperor to distract vader, starkiller vows to rescue the-senators and kota, and uses the-force to ascertain the-senators and kota location: the-death-star.
at this-point, the-player must choose between saving kota (light-side) or killing vader (dark-side).
if the-player chooses the-light-side, starkiller defeats the-emperor, but spares the-emperor at kota's-urging.
on kashyyyk, the-senators decide to proceed with the-rebellion and leia chooses starkiller's-family-crest as the-senators symbol.
if the-player chooses the-dark-side, starkiller finishes off vader and is congratulated by the-emperor, who commands starkiller to kill kota to sever starkiller ties to the-jedi and become a-sith-lord.
three-downloadable-content (dlc)-levels for the-game were released.
the-first-one is set during the-events of the-main-story and explores more of starkiller's-background, while the-second-and-third-ones expand upon the-non-canonical-dark-side of the-game, taking place in the-second-and-third-ones own alternate-timeline.
following starkiller-defeat, starkiller finds a-holocron left by marek, who reveals starkiller as starkiller father and tells starkiller it's not too late to return to the-light-side.
the-empire strikes back, respectively, and present starkiller as the-emperor's-trusted-assassin, referred to as "lord starkiller".
at mos-eisley, starkiller kills jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi after a-duel that allows the-droids to board the-millennium-falcon, though starkiller manages to place a-tracking-device on the-millennium-falcon before the-millennium-falcon takes off.
in the-hoth-mission, called wrath of the-empire, starkiller partakes in the-battle of hoth, where the-empire attacks the-weakened-rebel-alliance's-base on hoth to crush it once and for all.
luke-skywalker, who began training as a-jedi eventually finds and defeats skywalker in the-base's-hangar, severing luke-skywalker, who began training as a-jedi right hand.
when the-millennium-falcon tries to take off, starkiller seizes the-millennium-falcon with the-force while goading skywalker to give into the-dark-side to rescue skywalker friends.
skywalker attacks starkiller with force-lightning, causing skywalker to let go of the-ship and congratulate skywalker for embracing the-dark-side, planning to make skywalker skywalker apprentice the same way vader did to skywalker.
although starkiller starts as vader's-apprentice, a-focus of the-game is to allow the-character to evolve into "something more heroic, something greater."
witwer secured the-role by demonstrating to developers witwer deep understanding of the-character; in portraying starkiller, witwer brought many-new-ideas about the-character and imbued the-character with a-sense of humanity.
developers tried not to make starkiller so evil that players would have difficulty connecting to the-character, aiming to strike a-balance between loyalty to the-character master and the-character growing sense of disillusionment with the-empire.
the-character's-name is an-homage to "anakin-starkiller," the-original-name of the-character that eventually became luke-skywalker.
matt-sloan as darth-vader — a-powerful-dark-lord of the-sith,-high-ranking-enforcer of the-empire, and starkiller's-master, who discovers starkiller as a-child and trains starkiller.
the-apprentice, who has had limited-interaction with women when the-game begins, does not at first know how to act around a-young-princess-leia.
a-young-princess-leia-introduction early in the-game allows the-relationship with starkiller to develop, and a-young-princess-leia-inclusion helps "recapture that rich-ensemble feel of the-original-star-wars".
the-name "juno-eclipse" was originally proposed as a-name for the-character eventually called "asajj ventress" — it was ultimately rejected as insufficiently villainous.
a-jedi-master-and-clone-wars-veteran who provides starkiller with additional-insight into the-force and helps connect him to him jedi-heritage.
developers realized early that starkiller would require insight into the-force from someone other than darth-vader; after rejecting the-idea of this coming from the-spirit of qui-gon-jinn or some-version of darth-plagueis, developers decided to fill this-role with one of starkiller's jedi opponents.
the-character was conceived as a "tough-as-nails" contrast to the-more-traditional-image of a-jedi represented by jinn and obi-wan-kenobi.
the-character changed little after being conceived; fredricksen's-own-traits made the-character tougher.
the-character was originally conceived as a-pirate-captain, and christianson's-early-art included brood's-distinctive-lightsaber-tonfas.
trying to avoid having proxy's-dialogue become too reminiscent of either-c-3po or the villainous hk-47 of knights of the-old-republic, developers focused on proxy's-friendly-naïvety.
the-emmy-award-winning-smits voices the-character
r2-d2 also makes an-appearance in the-game alongside leia.
over-100-initial-concepts were whittled down to 20 to 25 that included making the-game the third entry in the-knights of the-old-republic-series or having the-protagonist be a-wookiee-"superhero", darth-maul, a-bounty-hunter, a-smuggler, a-mercenary, or the-last-member of the-skywalker-family.
the-decision to focus on the-largely-unexplored-period between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope helped energize the-design-team.
production was greatly aided by concept-art, which was intended to visually bridge the-two-star-wars-trilogies, convey the-impression of a "lived-in" universe, show how the-galaxy changes under imperial-rule, and to seem familiar yet new.
an-off-hand-comment about the-force in the-game being powerful enough "to pull a-star-destroyer out of the-sky" inspired an-image by senior-concept-artist-amy-beth-christenson that became an-important-part of the-developers'-idea-pitches and evolved into a-major-moment in the-game.
the-idea of "reimagining" the-force as "amped up" in the-force unleashed aligned with lucasarts'-overall-goal of harnessing the-power of the-latest-video-game-consoles to "dramatically"-change-gaming, specifically through the-use of simulation-based-gameplay.
in april 2005, after several-months of planning, the-development-team received george-lucas-encouragement to create a-game centered on darth-vader's-secret-apprentice in the-largely-unexplored-period between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope, drawing the-two-trilogies together.
lucas spent hours discussing with the-developers the-relationship between darth-vader and emperor-palpatine and provided feedback on what darth-vader would want out of and how darth-vader would motivate an-apprentice.
focus-group-feedback indicated that, while hunting down jedi at darth-vader's-order would be fun, the-character should be redeemed, in keeping with a-major-star-wars-motif.
although the-game introduces new-characters, developers felt the-presence of characters already-part of star-wars would help anchor the-game within the-official-continuity.
before the-game's-release, lucasfilm claimed lucasfilm would "unveil new-revelations about the-star-wars-galaxy" with a-"redemption"-motif.
the-story progresses through a-combination of scripted-events, in-game cinematics, cutscenes, and dialogue.
making the-game run on both the playstation 3 and xbox 360 was "a-monumental-task".
the-game is based on lucasarts'-proprietary-"ronin"-game-engine but also integrates third-party-technology
lucasarts initially opted not to release a-personal-computer-version of the-force-unleashed, stating that doing the-game well would be too processor-intensive for typical-pcs and that scaling down the-game's procedural physics for the-pc-platform would "fundamentally" change the-force-unleashed's gameplay.
lucas said having the-companies working together in the-same-building was "a great
lucasarts-music-supervisor-jesse-harlin said music === matches the-game's-motif of redemption and goal of bridging the-gap between revenge of the-sith and
as the-game progresses, however, the-empire gains more-control, the-jedi are hunted, and the-ordered-control of the-prequels gives way to the-more-romantic-temperament of the-original-trilogy.
the-90-minute-soundtrack was recorded by the-skywalker-symphony-orchestra and mixed at skywalker-sound in lucas-valley in september and october 2007.
during gameplay, a-proprietary-engine combines "musical-elements according to the-pace, plot, and environment of the-game at any-given-moment", resulting in a-unique-musical-experience.
the-first-expansion added "skins" that allow the-player's-character to appear as star-wars figures other than starkiller, such as obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker, qui-gon-jinn, jango-fett, c-3po, luke-skywalker, darth-maul, darth-sion, mace-windu, plo-koon, kit-fisto and ki-adi-mundi.
the-tatooine-downloadable-content, released august 27, 2009, is the first of two-expansions that occur in an-"infinities"-storyline, an-alternate-history in which starkiller kills vader and becomes palpatine's-assassin.
the-second-infinities-expansion, which takes place on hoth, was originally only available as part of the-ultimate-sith-edition, which also includes all-previous-downloadable-content.
== reception ==-1.738-million-unit-sales of the-force unleashed across all-platforms made it the third best-selling game globally in the-third-quarter of 2008; as of july 2009, it had sold six-million-copies.
playstation 3, xbox 360 and pc ===
electronic-gaming-monthly said the-game is "ambitious--yet dissatisfying"; however, gamespot said the-game "gets more right than the-game does wrong".
gamespot said the-pc-port of the-game retained all of the-game's strengths and weaknesses, but that the-pc-port of the-game failed to take advantage of the-pc-platform.
the-washington-times identified mark-griskey's-soundtrack as "another-star" of the-game, and tracksounds called it "the most entertaining star wars score since return of the-jedi".
the-game received gamespot's-2008-award for best-use of a-creative-license and was nominated for best-voice-acting.
gaming-target selected the-game as one of gaming-target "40-games
official-xbox-magazine cited the-game's-linear-gameplay and lack of multiplayer as reasons the-game falls short of being "an-all-engrossing-star-wars-experience".
rather than feeling more powerful as the-game progresses, gamepro felt that increases in starkiller's-powers were dampened by increasingly-difficult-enemy-abilities and positions; x-play commented that despite a-good-level-up-system, starkiller-and-starkiller-enemies are "pretty much on even-ground most of the-time".
wired.com, x-play, and gamespot criticized the-game's-third-person-camera and the-sequence that requires the-player to make starkiller pull a-star-destroyer out of the-sky.
ign found the-level-design in the-ultimate-sith-edition's-hoth-scenario uninteresting, and called the-boss fight against luke-skywalker tough but "not nearly as fun" as it could have been.
the-demo was the-fourth-most-played-xbox-live-game during the-week of august 25, trailing grand-theft-auto-iv, halo 3, and call of duty 4: modern-warfare; it was the-ninth-most-played-xbox-live-title throughout all of 2008.
the-week the-week was released, the-force-unleashed was the-sixth-most-played-game on xbox live, and the-week rose to fifth the following week.
in the-united-states, the-playstation-3-and-xbox-360-version sold 325,000-and-610,000-copies, respectively, in september 2008; that month, the-xbox-360-version was the-best-selling-game and the-playstation-3-version was the-fifth-best-selling-game for their-respective-consoles.
nintendo-power praised the-story and the-number of lightsaber-combos but criticized the-game's-easiness and hack-and-slash-gameplay.
in the-united-states, the-ds-version sold 223,000-copies in september 2008, making the-ds-version the-ninth-best-selling-game that month.
in the-united-states, the-ds-version was the-14th-best-selling-game in september 2008, selling over-100,000-copies.
the-force unleashed on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-force unleashed at mobygames-star-wars:
the-force unleashed at imdb
each-movement of the-suite is named after a-planet of the-solar-system and the-solar-system corresponding astrological character as defined by holst.
although there were four-performances between september 1918 and october 1920, they were all either private-(the-first-performance, in london) or incomplete (two-others in london and one in birmingham).
the-concept of the-work is astrological rather than astronomical (which is why earth is not included, although sun and moon are also not included while including the-non-traditional-uranus and neptune): each-movement is intended to convey ideas and emotions associated with the-influence of the-planets on the-psyche, not the-roman-deities.
the-suite has seven-movements, each named after a-planet and the-suite corresponding-astrological-character (see planets in astrology): holst's-original-title, as seen on the-handwritten-full-score, was "seven-pieces for large-orchestra".
each-movement of holst's-work was originally called only by the-second-part of each-title (i "the bringer of war", ii "the bringer of peace" and so on); the-present-titles were added in time for the-first-(incomplete)-public-performance in september 1918, though the-present-titles were never added to the-original-score.
thus mars involves motion and neptune is static; venus is sublime while uranus is vulgar, and mercury is light and scherzando while saturn is heavy and plodding.
this-hypothesis is lent credence by the-fact that the-two-outer-movements, mars and neptune, are both written in rather-unusual-quintuple-meter.
japanese-composer-jun-nagao arranged the-planets for the-trouvère-quartet in 2003, including added-movements for earth and pluto, since the latter was considered a planet at the-time.
japanese-singer-ayaka-hirahara released a-pop-version of "jupiter" in december 2003.
the-man who fell to earth features excerpts of venus and mars.
the-simpsons-episode "the-regina-monologues" features an-extract from mars in a-flashback-scene to world-war-ii.
john-williams used the-melodies and instrumentation of mars as the-inspiration for john-williams soundtrack for the-star-wars-films (specifically "the imperial march").
hans-zimmer closely used the-melodies, instrumentation and orchestration of mars as the-inspiration for hans-zimmer soundtrack for the-movie gladiator to the-extent that a-lawsuit for copyright-infringement was filed by the-holst-foundation.
hate-floats" features henchmen 21 and 24 comedically singing the-opening of mars as they gear up to prepare to return to they-duties as henchmen.
an-arrangement of a-small-excerpt of jupiter appears in the-game persona 3-portable under the filename eve_511, however persona 3-portable was not released as part of the-official-soundtrack.
the-show was spun off from star-trek:
the-show was filmed primarily on the-paramount-studios-lot in los-angeles, california.
the-fourth-season saw a-change in direction for the-series with the-producers asked to "shake up the-show" by paramount, and the-addition of a-main-cast-member.
j.-g.-hertzler as general-martok had previously appeared in the-pilot of the-series as a-vulcan-captain on board the-uss-saratoga, and martok would end the-series as the-klingon-chancellor.
list of star-trek:
the-original-series cast members list of star-trek:
voyager-cast-members list of star-trek:
enterprise cast members list of star-trek:
knights of the-old-republic-series consists of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ii –
the-series also encompasses a-2006-comic-book-series, and a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game called star wars: the-old-republic.
the-player can control three-characters at one-time in both-games.
the-second-game's-playable-characters have overall been well-received, with the-first-knights of the-old-republic winning the academy of interactive-art's "outstanding achievement in character-and-story-development", and both-kreia and hk-47 receiving other-awards.
chris-avellone, the-lead-designer of the-sith-lords, has said that "a-core-part of what made kotor i so great was the-story and your-companions, and that was our-intention in the-sequel as well", and has also said that he thought that the-characters and voice-acting were some of the-key-strengths of the-sith-lords, and said that the-characters and voice-acting got a-lot of help and support from lucasarts in the-voice-acting-and-sound-department.
revan's-true-identity is not revealed until a-predetermined-point in the-narrative where the-player is confronted by the-game's-central-antagonist darth-malak for the-first-time.
the-old-republic, revan is male and follows the-light-side-path, but the-player may choose revan's alias or gender as female during character-creation, and/or follow the-dark-side-path.
the-player may choose the-gender and decide what-path to take.
according to continuity established by star-wars: the-old-republic and the-old-republic associated supplementary-material, the-jedi-exile is named meetra surik, who is female and aligned to the-light-side of the-force.
ordo is a-veteran-mandalorian-warrior who joins the-player's-party in knights of the-old-republic.
ugo-networks ranked ordo among ugo-networks list of top-fifty-expanded-universe-characters.
if the-player attempts to talk to t3 will simply communicate in a-series of bleeps, similar to other-astromech-droids like r2-d2.
knights of the-old-republic-characters === ====
it is later revealed that carth had a-family on telos who were killed by the-sith: his-son dustil later turns up as a-sith-convert and the-player has the-option of killing his-son dustil or opening his-son dustil eyes.
mission-vao, voiced by catherine-taber, appears in knights of the-old-republic.
==== is a-character from knights of the-old-republic.
==== is a-wookiee who is friends with mission-vao and joins the-player's-party, swearing a-life-debt to the-player for helping mission-rescue zaalbar
bastila-shan, voiced by jennifer-hale, is a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic.
the-first-part of the-game is spent searching for a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic after the-endar-spire is destroyed, and a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic joins the-party upon a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic rescue.
darth-malak later captures a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic and seduces a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic to the-dark-side.
revan later confronts bastila in a-lightsaber-duel and has the-option of killing a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic or allowing a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic to live: a-dark-side-character makes a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic their-apprentice, while a-light-side-character helps a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic redeem a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic by helping the-republic-fleet.
jolee-bindo, voiced by kevin-michael-richardson, is a-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
disappointed with many-jedi-many-jedidecision, jolee left the-order and started wandering the-galaxy before crash-landing on kashyyyk, where jolee lived for 20-years until jolee met revan.
kimberley-wallace of game-informer included jolee-bindo in kimberley-wallace of game-informer list of best-bioware-characters; kimberley-wallace of game-informer called kimberley-wallace of game-informer a-"cranky-old-man who hacks the-hell out of enemies is hard to top".
bao-dur, voiced by roger-g.-smith, is a-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-exile, who did not know bao-dur on a-personal-level at the-time, gave the-command, which sent massive-echoes in the-force throughout the-galaxy.
visas-marr is a-miraluka from the-planet of katarr, which was destroyed by darth-nihilus when visas-marr was a-child.
while visas-marr is considered blind, visas-marr is able to see through the-force which allowed visas-marr to find the-jedi-exile.
eventually the-player confronts nihilus with visas, and fights nihilus.
the-player may choose to have visas sacrifice nihilus to weaken nihilus.
as the-character was mostly covered – only-the-lower-half of her-face is visible – brian-menze decided to make what was shown "as sexy as possible".
menze noted that the-character has since become a fan favorite and a-popular-choice for cosplay-activities at fan-conventions.
brianna, voiced by grey-delisle, is the-"last-handmaiden" on a-jedi-academy located on telos-iv in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
he eventually tells the-player-character that he wishes the-player to be he master.
hanharr is encountered on the-planet nar-shaddaa, as is mira, another-bounty-hunter.
the-player's-character eventually defeats sion, and upon doing so, can return the-player's-character to the-light before the-player's-character dies.
darth-nihilus === appears in knights of the-old-republic-ii --the-sith-lords as one of the-titular-sith-lords.
darth-nihilus === is known as the-lord of hunger, capable of draining the-life-force out of any-living-thing, and intends to consume as-much-life in the-galaxy as possible.
darth-nihilus === is depicted as a wraith-like being who speaks in unintelligible-rasps and feasts on the-force like a-parasite.
nihilus then uses the-might of the-sith-armada not to conquer planets, but to contain traya was later cast out and driven into exile so that nihilus could "feed" off the-force-energy of each-planet's-lifeforms, wiping planets of life.
nihilus is defeated in the-game after being drawn out and tricked into launching an-attack on telos, believing nihilus to harbour the last of the-jedi.
the-exile, together with canderous-ordo and nihilus'-former-associate-visas-marr confront the-sith-lord on the-sith-lord ship, and nihilus is slain either after visas sacrifices nihilus due to visas shared link in the-force, or after the-sith-lord attempt to feast on the-exile's-connection to the-force backfires and weakens the-sith-lord.
the-old-republic
nihilus is introduced to the-galaxy of heroes-mobile-game as a-playable-character in a-2017-update.
as the-“face” of the-marketing for the-sith-lords, the-character has been featured prominently in promotional-material and subject to merchandise, including several-action-figures.
the-character's-visual was quick to define; eurogamer describes the-character as "a-concept created and greenlit in all-of-15-minutes".
the-character has been frequently referenced in fan-art, cosplay and other-derivative-works since the-character appearance in the-sith-lords'.
the-character was also featured on the-the-howard-stern-show for several-weeks.
nihilus'-popularity has led to rumors of supposed-references to the-character in canon-star-wars works, such as the-identity of a-particular-ancient-sith-statue in star-wars:
menze noted in retrospect that co-creating darth-nihilus with avellone is a-career-highlight for avellone, and acknowledged that the-character "has gone on to be bigger than the-game we created".
voiced by elizabeth-rider, is a-former-member of the-jedi-council and one of the-jedi largely responsible for banishing the-jedi exile from the-jedi order.
prior to the-events of the-sith-lords, atris === had an-idealistic-view of the-jedi that bordered on fanaticism, believing that they were the-perfect-guardians of the-galaxy and, as a-result, did not tolerate any-criticism directed towards they.
this drove her to betraying the-jedi by alerting the-location of a-hidden-conclave to darth-nihilus, resulting in the-jedi being driven to near-extinction.
allowing the-player to escape.
once the-player meets darth-bandon again, darth-bandon may choose a-dialogue-option to avenge trask-ulgo.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
players go to star-wars: knights of the-old-republic to obtain bounties.
ajuur the-hutt was a-hutt who worked in the-upper-city-cantina who ran the-duelling-ring in kotor-i.--star-wars: knights of the-old-republic can arrange the-player's-character to fight the-mandalorian-death-match-champion bendak-starkiller, which can be redeemed for a-bounty to zax.
davik-kang was the-exchange-leader of taris, and used elite-mercenaries such as canderous-ordo and calo-nord to carry out star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-dirty-work.
he was killed in the-orbital-bombardment of taris, from which-point the-player has to make their-escape from the-planet in he ship, the-ebon-hawk.
chuundar is a-wookiee-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
once the-player comes with zaalbar to kashyyyk in search of a-star-map, chuundar imprisons zaalbar and tells revan that he must kill their-father, freyrr, in the-shadowlands to free the-wookiee.
if revan chooses to kill freyrr, the-player leaves with the-gratitude of chuundar.
chuundar continues to enslave wookiees and the-player can no longer return to the-wookiee-village.
if revan spares freyyr, revan kills chuundar and the-slavers, frees the-wookiees, frees zaalbar, and leaves with the-gratitude of freyrr, able to return to the-village on kashyyyk at any-time, although the-player is unable to trade on kashyyk any longer after freyyr leads a-wookiee-rebellion that expels the-slavers from the-planet.
it is possible for the-player to assume control of b4-d4 if the-exile helps the ithorians with the-exile restoration project.
during the-jedi-civil-war, his remained on taris, watching matches in the-cantina and hoping for the-day his could return to the-arena for another-death-match with a-worthy-opponent.
in a-dark-side-option, the-player can duel bendak in a-death-match after defeating the-reigning-taris-duelling-champion, twitch.
the-player will receive credits from ajuur for winning the-illegal-death-match and receive bendak's-blaster-pistol, and will receive the-bounty-fee from zax as well.
ign ranked several-characters from the-series in their-list of top-100-star-wars-characters: darth-revan, darth-malak, hk-47, canderous-ordo, darth-nihilus, bastila-shan, darth-sion, and darth-traya placed 12th, 28th, 33rd, 52nd, 56th, 62nd, 73rd and 81st respectively.
several-characters from the-series dominated gamespot's-2019-list of "15-great-star-wars-characters who came from video-games".
subsequently, ea-dice acquired a-license to develop a-new-game, titled star wars battlefront which was released on november 17, 2015.
a-sequel, star-wars-battlefront-ii, was released on november 17, 2017, and was developed by ea-dice, criterion-games, and motive-studios.
gameplay == games in the-battlefront-series normally revolve around two-armies – the-galactic-republic versus the-confederacy of independent-systems or the-galactic-empire versus the-rebel-alliance or first-order versus the-resistance – fighting each other on various-maps.
maps take place in the-star-wars-galaxy, with battlezones varying in theme and size.
the-first-console-games of the-series were developed by pandemic-studios, and since 2015, a-second-series of console-battlefront-games has been developed by ea-dice.
battlefront-ii (2017) is the first in the-series to accurately follow the-canon of the-films, while the-games developed by pandemic-studios were relegated to star-wars-legends-non-canonical-status, along with all of the-games in the-series released before november 2015.
battlefront was released on september 21, 2004, with a-mac-port by aspyr released in july 2005.
the-game is available on microsoft-windows, playstation 2, xbox, mac-os, and mobile-phones.
jedi are not playable in the-game without the-help of modified-files unsupported by lucasarts.
battlefront-ii is the-second-installment in the-battlefront-series, released in europe on october 31, 2005 – for the-playstation-2,-psp, xbox, and windows – and in north-america one day later.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-related-content.
the-release-date of battlefront-ii coincided with the-release of revenge of the-sith on dvd.
the-game is now an-xbox-platinum-hits-game, a-sony-greatest-hits-game in north-america, and an-xbox-classics-and-playstation-platinum-game in europe.
battlefront-ii has a-story-based-campaign which revolves around the-501st-legion (aka-"vader's-fist") and battlefront-ii evolution from a-legion of clone-troopers serving the-republic during the-clone-wars to imperial-stormtroopers.
many-maps from star-wars-battlefront make a-second-appearance, and the-game adds new-locales such as coruscant and utapau.
the-game also introduces "heroes" – playable-characters based on iconic-characters from the-star-wars-films who are much more powerful than regular-soldier (and were also present in the-original-battlefront, but only as npcs that spawned randomly on the-battlefield); the-hero-roster includes luke-skywalker, han-solo, leia-organa, chewbacca, obi-wan-kenobi, yoda, mace-windu, ki-adi-mundi and aayla-secura (as well as kit-fisto, available only on the-xbox-version of the-game via the-xbox-live-patch), whereas the-villain-roster includes darth-vader, darth-sidious, boba-fett, count-dooku, general-grievous, darth-maul, jango-fett, and anakin-skywalker (as well as asajj-ventress, also available only via the-xbox-live-patch).
there are more-modes in this-game, such as conquest, hunt (where players fight as natives on planets against other-natives or certain-troopers in an-army, such as wampas vs. rebels on hoth or tusken-raiders vs. jawas on tatooine, to earn 50-points first), capture the-flag (both with 1-and-2-flags), assault (which, on tatooine only, is also available as heroes vs villains, where one-team plays as the-heroes and the-other-one as the-villains in a-race to rack up points by defeating enemies) and space-battles.
on september 29, 2006, computer-and-video-games made an-unconfirmed-claim that free-radical-design was developing the-third-game in the-star-wars: battlefront-series, titled star-wars: battlefront-iii.
on october 2, activision-blizzard filed a-classification with the-australian-office of film-and-literature-classification listing star-wars: battlefront-iii for the-nintendo-ds with a-pg-rating (e10+ equivalent) for mild-animated-violence.
however, that same month, free-radical-design announced that free-radical-design lost the-rights to develop star-wars: battlefront-iii; the-game at that-point had been in development for two-years.
however, gamespot quoted an-unnamed-lucasarts-employee involved with the-project who said free-radical could not devote sufficient-resources to the-game and regularly missed deadlines.
in december 2008, star-wars-character renders bearing a-battlefront-iii-watermark surfaced from a-laid-off-free-radical-employee.
the following month, gameplay-footage was leaked from a november 2008 free-radical in-house showing of battlefront-iii-footage.
on april 1, 2012, a-user on the-game-journalist-website betagames discovered star-wars-models and textures buried in resident-evil:
also in april 2012, past to present revealed pre-alpha-footage of free-radical-design's-battlefront-iii.
on january 20, 2016, a-leaked-build of the-game surfaced on reddit.
the-game was said to be released for the xbox 360 and playstation 3.
the-game was also stated that the-game may have been the-source of the-star-wars: battlefront 3 concept art renders.
however, the-game has been canceled after the-studio was unable to meet the-game 2010 release deadline.
speaking to kotaku an-anonymous-insider noted that the-game was to be "step zero" towards a-third-battlefront-game.
when footage of the-game was leaked onto youtube-tech-site technobuffalo noted that the-gameplay very closely resembled that of the-call of duty-franchise.
in 2018, concept-art surfaced of a-canceled-battlefront-iv, rather than attempting to fit within the-previous-games-and-films'-continuity, concept-art showed the-game was meant to focus on an-alternate-reality where obi-wan-kenobi and luke-skywalker fell to the-dark-side, instead of anakin-skywalker.
==== is a-handheld-game released in north-america on october 9, 2007 and in europe three days later.
a-handheld-game released in north-america on october 9, 2007 was released only for the-playstation-portable.
renegade-squadron is also available in a-bundle-pack with the-then-new-white-psp-redesign featuring darth-vader on the-back.
aside from new-heroes and vehicles, such as the-millennium-falcon, a-new-feature is the-ability to create a-character, allowing the-player to adjust the-character's-features such as weapon, appearance, and speed.
however, the-character will be vulnerable due to the-lacking of certain-aspects that will be replaced by others.
for example, the-character may be fast but weak or have good-weapons but no-stamina and speed.
then the-player starts a-series of missions ranging in objectives while including cut-scenes between each-mission.
the-final-mission includes the-battle of endor, in which the-objectives are similar to the-footage of return of the-jedi.
elite-squadron ==== was released on november 3, 2009 for the-playstation-portable and the-nintendo-ds.
the-game was originally discovered through the-game esrb rating on the-official-esrb-website which has since been taken down.
the-game follows in the-same-vein as the-game predecessors with space, land and new-air-battles.
elite-squadron is most notable for featuring simultaneous-space-and-ground-battles in instant-action, and is the-only-game in the-series with this-feature.
mobile-squadrons ==== was released on april 2, 2009.
the-game features a-persistent-online-community, and has three-character-classes.
the-gameplay is a-first-person-perspective-shooter that can use the-touch-features of a-phone, although the-player has no-control over movement.
in april 2015, ea announced a-release-date of november 17, 2015 at star-wars-celebration.
the-game is a-reboot of the-series, focusing on capturing the-look of the-films.
free-downloadable-content (dlc) for the-game was released in december 2015, featuring the-planet of jakku with two-new-maps and a-new-multiplayer-game-mode.
the-game also features both-first-and-third-person-gameplay-perspectives, similar to the-game predecessors.
the-game features a-pseudo-campaign — a-cooperative-experience allowing the-player to experience gameplay with one-or-two-players and computer-controlled-allies and opponents.
outer-rim" is the-first-dlc-pack for the-game and was released on march 22, 2016.
the-second-expansion-pack is titled "bespin" and allows players to fight in the-setting of cloud-city, released in september 2016.
the-third-expansion-pack, titled "death star", was released in september 2016 as well and added the-long-awaited-death-star to the-game, along with new-heroes-chewbacca and bossk.
the-fourth-and-final-dlc-pack was released on december 6, 2016.
it is based on characters and locations from the-film rogue-one, and includes jyn-erso and orson-krennic as new-playable-heroes, and a-new-game-mode set both above and on the-planet scarif.
blake-jorgensen of electronic-arts mentioned a-sequel in november 2016, and star-wars-battlefront-ii was announced in march 2017.
the-game was released on november 17, 2017.
star-wars-battlefront-ii features both-single-player-and-multiplayer-game-modes, a-customizable-character-class-system, and content based on all-star-wars-movies up to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (with content for the-other-movies, as well as television-series being added later on via free-dlc).
a-celebration-edition was released in december 2019.
the-game was originally planned for release in fall 2020, coinciding with the-next-generation of video-game-consoles, but was canceled in late 2019.
although early-versions of the-game contained assets from free-radical-design, assets soon became "place-holders" as the-full-game planned to be released using assets and music made from the-ground up.
on june 22, 2016, lucasfilm requested the-production of galaxy in turmoil in turmoil be halted.
on july 31, 2016, frontwire-studios announced the-cancellation of the-game was due to the-"possibility of galaxy in turmoil taking away attention from electronic-arts's-battlefront-franchise".
proposals of galaxy in turmoil falling under the-paywall of electronic-arts, and ideas of lucasfilm giving frontwire-studios a-star-wars-license were both rejected due to an-agreement between electronic-arts and lucasfilm.
list of star-wars-video-games ==
introduced in star-wars: the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in the star-wars sequel trilogy ,
english-actress-gwendoline-christie returned to the-role in the next of the-trilogy's-films, star wars: the-last-jedi (2017), and in the-animated-television-series star-wars-resistance (2018) and several-video-games.
the-character also made an-additional-appearance in before the-awakening, an anthology book set before the-events of the force awakens.
j.-j.-abrams created phasma from an-armor-design originally developed for kylo-ren and named her after the-1979-horror-film phantasm.
the-character was originally conceived as male.
nonetheless, merchandise featuring the-character found success, and her-figure was the-best-selling of all-the-force
kaplan intended for the-visuals of the-first-order to contrast with that of the-resistance, appearing in colors like "black, teal blue, and steel gray", with stormtroopers being updated to be more simplified and modernized.
kaplan designed the-character believing it would be "extremely cool" to have a-silver-armored-character in the-1979-horror-film phantasm.
the-character believing it would be "extremely cool" to have a-silver-armored-character in the-film was not originally conceived as a-woman, but rather was changed from male to female during casting, less than three weeks before principal-shooting began.
christie was not aware that the-character was originally a-man.
the-commander of the-first-order's-stormtroopers, captain-phasma is described as a-"tough-veteran-commander" and one of a-"commanding-triumvirate" of the-first-order alongside kylo-ren and general-hux.
the-actress called the-character "a-malevolent-force" who takes pleasure in the-actress cruelty, something
chris-laverty, creator of costume-analysis-site-clothes on film, called her-armor "probably-the-most-regal-costume" in the-force awakens, and noted her-armor "probably-the-most-regal-costume" in the-force awakens as a-reflection of her-status.
gill-armor called to mind-mirrors, symbols of "self-reflection and self-examination", the-feelings gill brings in finn when gill inadvertently helps inspire him to defect.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
phasma is present when finn's-defection is discovered; phasma mentions that finn had never committed any-infractions in the-past.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
the-last-jedi when finn, mechanic-rose-tico, and computer-hacker-dj infiltrate the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy, a-37.5-miles (60.4-km)-wide-flagship, in an-attempt to disable the-ship's-tracking-device.
the-last-jedi when finn, mechanic-rose-tico, and computer-hacker-dj infiltrate the-mega-class-star-dreadnought-supremacy, a-37.5-miles (60.4-km)-wide-flagship, in an-attempt to disable the-ship's-tracking-device are captured and brought before phasma-and-phasma-stormtroopers.
phasma taunts finn, and orders phasma execution with rose in a-"slow-and-painful"-way.
in the-ensuing-chaos, phasma and finn fight.
at first, phasma gets the-upper-hand, knocking finn into a-pit.
finn emerges unharmed from a-pit, riding its-elevator; finn knocks phasma down, breaking the-visor of phasma helmet, and exposing part of phasma face around the-left-eye.
the-last-jedi-director rian-johnson said that phasma's-limited-supporting-role in the-film was due to time-constraints and an-already-large-cast of characters, and indicated that there were no-other-plans for phasma in the-films.
the-rise of skywalker was hinted, john-boyega confirmed at the-episode-ix-panel during celebration-chicago that phasma indeed died in the-last-jedi, officially confirming john-boyega death.
before the-awakening, a-prequel-anthology, features the-character in a-short-story centered around finn.
in the-character, finn monitors finn's performance in combat-simulation and, although praising his-skill, finn criticizes his-rescuing of a-weaker-soldier.
a-four-part-comic-miniseries, star-wars: captain-phasma, was announced in april 2017 as part of the-journey to star-wars:
the-series was written by kelly-thompson with art by marco-checchetto, and published by marvel-comics between september 6 and october 18, 2017.
the-lego-star-wars-version of phasma also appears in the-2016-short-form-animated-series lego-star-wars: the-resistance rises.
polygon's-susana-polo considered the-force awakens a-great-achievement for hollywood for the-force diversity regardless of the-force quality, though polygon's-susana-polo used phasma as an-example of how the-film was not perfect, noting rumors of phasma's minor role despite polygon's-susana-polo being the first on-screen female stormtrooper.
the-telegraph's-jonathan-mcaloon called the-telegraph's-jonathan-mcaloon "one-criticism" of the-force awakens the-underuse of phasma, and wondered if polygon's-susana-polo-face would ever be revealed in the-films.
scott-meslow, writing for the-week, criticized the-film's-lack of nuance in the-film-villains, calling her "a total cipher" in the-film despite her-heavy-appearance in the-film promotion.
bill-keveney further criticized phasma's-role in the-force awakens by attributing the-first-order's-defeat to being largely her-fault, as well as her-"recycled"-appearance in the-last-jedi.
merchandise featuring the-character proved popular.
david-betancourt of the-washington-post called phasma's-role in the-film "little more than a-shiny-new-prop", viewing david-betancourt of the-washington-post as a-victim of the-film's need to introduce all the-film new-characters, yet noted the-popularity and rarity of the-merchandise surrounding the-character.
the-author, alan-dean-foster, also wrote star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker, the-1976-novelization of the first star-wars film.
asked to write the-novelization by shelly-shapiro of del-rey-books, foster was given access to the-screenplay of the-first-star-wars-film, along with stills from the-film of characters and sets.
foster wanted to develop a-romance between rey and finn, which foster thought was implied in the-film.
foster also expressed foster dissatisfaction with the-film, saying that the-film prompted foster to write a-treatment for episode-ix, "attempting in that-storyline to explain a-lot of the-really-silly-things that happened in episode-viii.
differences between the-novel and the-film ==
early in the-novel, a-sequence with leia reveals the-origin of main-factions in the-film: the-resistance, the-new-republic and the-first-order.
a-sequence where rey and chewbacca encounter unkar-plutt on takodana.
the-book being released before the-movie was released on december 18, 2015.
the-accompanying-works were declared non-canon to the-star-wars-franchise by lucasfilm in 2014.this-list applies only to characters who completely appear in legends-media, and who therefore do not exist in the-canon-continuity.
for characters belonging to the-canon-continuity, see list of star-wars-characters.
millennia later, following the-actions of the-sith-lord-darth-caedus, the-jedi (led by jedi-grand-master-luke-skywalker) launched an-attack on centerpoint and destroyed the-ancient-space-station.
using her-dark-side-powers, abeloth possessed the-charismatic-senator-rokari-kem, whom her used to assume control of the-galactic-federation of free-alliances, as well as the-lost-tribe of the-sith (after her-murder of sith-grand-lord-darish-vol).
her was eventually destroyed by the-combined-efforts of skywalker and skywalker sith counterpart, darth-krayt, leader of the-one-sith.
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness.
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness left behind a-holocron that supposedly held the-secret to immortality.
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness did appear in star-wars-canon
the-rise of skywalker was named after the-rise of skywalker.
an-alderaanian-senator; as an-alderaanian-senator is the-father of breha-antilles, wife to bail organa, bail-antilles is the-adoptive-grandfather of princess leia organa.
a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars was known as "the-golden-tempter", and was also known for a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars extreme ambition and wanted to replace palpatine as supreme-chancellor.
she established a-jedi-academy on telos and is served by a-retinue of echani-handmaiden-warriors in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
azrakel was known for apprentice of kadann who served the-secret-order of the-empire disturbing-and-sadistic-penchant for killing.
it is possible to control b4-d4 in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
killed by revan during the-events of knights of the-old-republic.
a-zabrak-technician from iridonia who served under meetra-surik during the-mandalorian-wars was the-inventor of the-mass-shadow-generator which caused the-cataclysmic-events in malachor-v, and later reunites with surik as a-playable-companion in knights of the-old-republic-ii –
a-former-member of the-jedi-order and playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
the-force unleashed.
imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids.
imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids kills imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids superior-officer-mod-terrik in docking-bay 94 after becoming disgusted with the-empire's tyranny, giving the-millennium-falcon the-time needed to escape from tatooine
a-droid who established a-successful-smuggling-organization following the-events of knights of the-old-republic to help rebuild the-republic, and later joins meetra-surik in knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine; served as palpatine's aide during janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine time as senator of naboo and the-chommell-sector, and replaced janus-greejatus-longtime-friend and associate of palpatine in the-position after palpatine was elected supreme chancellor.
greejatus continued to served in this-capacity when the-galactic-empire came to power and palpatine declared palpatine emperor.
hanharr-a-wookie-bounty-hunter and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
revan's-loyal-assassin-droid-companion and a-playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
michael-stackpole, who created the-character for the-x-wing-series, depicts horn in the-star-wars-customizable-card-game.
became director of republic-intelligence after the-empire replaced the-republic.
ysanne-isard-former-head of imperial-intelligence and leader of the-empire in the-x-wing-book-series.
antagonist in children of the-jedi and the-new-jedi-order's-enemy-lines-duology.
mara-jade-skywalker — portrayed by shannon-mcrandle-"emperor's-hand" to palpatine during palpatine reign; luke-skywalker's-wife.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
k == k-3px blue and black-3px-series-protocol-droid and assassin who is darth-vader's-henchman in darth-vader's-search for luke-skywalker in the-1970s/1980s-marvel-comics-star-wars-series, issues #74-76 and #80 (1983).
michael-gregory-jedi who served as jaesa-willsaam's-jedi-master was known to touch the-dark-side of the-force while within the-lines of the-sith-empire, yet remained true to the-jedi-code.
born on kessel and taken to live in the-lost-city of the-jedi underneath yavin 4.
the-son of triclops and grandson of palpatine was found by luke-skywalker, who then inducted the-son of triclops and grandson of palpatine into the-rebel-alliance.
jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa.
in the force unleashed, jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa attacks an-imperial-tie-fighter-facility with a-band of militia.
originally-an-enemy to darth-vader's-apprentice, starkiller, but later becomes jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa-mentor.
sith-lord who lived during the-great-hyperspace-war was naga-sadow's-greatest-rival, and fought sith-lord who lived during the-great-hyperspace-war for the-title of dark-lord of the-sith following the-death of marka-ragnos.
k'kruhk — voiced by kevin-michael-richardson-whipid-jedi-master who fought during the-clone-wars and survived the-great-jedi-purge.
k'kruhk — voiced by kevin-michael-richardson-whipid-jedi-master who fought during the-clone-wars and survived
exar-kun-fallen-jedi who led the-brotherhood of the-sith against the-jedi and the-galactic-republic during the-great-sith-war, later establishes a-dark-side-presence on yavin 4.
an'ya-kuro was aurra-sing's-master before sing left the-jedi to become a-bounty-hunter, and was also a'sharad-hett's-second-jedi-master.
ugo-networks listed the-character as the-11th-worst-expanded-universe-character, saying that while ugo-networks did not have any-problems with the-character as a-whole, his-name "has got to go".
lumiya introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the-empire.
introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the-empire-returns in the-legacy of the-force-series, where lumiya introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the empire trains jacen-solo in the-ways of the-sith and turns the-sith to the-dark-side of the-force.
darth-malak — voiced by rafael-ferrer-darth-revan's-apprentice; the-main-antagonist of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
darth-malgus — voiced by jamie-glover-a-sith-lord and central-character featured in star-wars the-old-republic.
darth-vader discovers darth-vader hiding on kashyyyk and kills darth-vader at the-beginning of star-wars:
the-force unleashed, then takes his-young-son as his-secret-apprentice.
she later defected and becomes a-playable-companion of meetra-surik in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
"resurrection" in star-wars tales #9.
a-bounty-hunter and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
he believed that he was a-prophet chosen by the-will of the-force and would become the-founder of the-prophets of the-dark-side.
prequel-era-books establish that a-jedi-spirit-luke-surname was originally masana, and a-jedi-spirit luke fought in the-clone-wars.
he served as the-main-antagonist of the-comic-series-vector, which spanned knights of the-old-republic, dark-times, rebellion and legacy.
the-glove of darth-vader is shot in the-leg by tibor, zorba the-hutt's-personal-bounty-hunter, when the-moffship pulls the zorba express into the-moffship, but survives.
husband of sola-naberrie and father of ryoo-naberrie & pooja-naberrie is also the-uncle of luke-skywalker and leia-organa.
darth nihilus one of the-antagonists of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
the-sole-survivor of the-sith-lords, and a-member of the-sith-triumvirate-planet's-destruction, nihilus became singularly focused on draining the-force from all-living-beings to satisfy the-sith-lords, and a-member of the-sith-triumvirate eternal-hunger for the-force.
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order, blaming
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order for the-death of the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order father.
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order became enemies with obi-wan-kenobi in particular, battling the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order multiple times.
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order is one of the-central-antagonists of the-jedi-quest-book-series.
carth-onasi — voiced by raphael-sbarge-companion of revan who aided the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order in
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order quest to find and destroy the-star-forge.
he is the-pilot of the-ebon-hawk and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
mandalore the-preserver" is a-playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
first appears in the-game
in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, his-spirit continues to haunt his-tomb on korriban before being redeemed by revan.
following palpatine's-death at the-battle of endor, pestage took palpatine-place as emperor, but was later betrayed by the-other-imperial-advisors when palpatine agreed to turn coruscant over to the-new-republic.
palpatine was executed by ysanne-isard's-agents.
the-old-republic
marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire.
following marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire-death, marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire lived on as a-force-ghost and decreed that only the most worthy could succeed marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire as dark-lord of the-sith.
a-companion of meetra-surik who once fought in the-mandalorian-wars and jedi-civil-war is the-pilot of the-ebon-hawk and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii –
she betrays the-jedi and is nearly defeated by leia-organa.
an-increasing-unstable-and-vengeful-alema hunts leia throughout the-rest of the-dark-nest-novels and much of the-legacy of the-force-series.
he is the-main-protagonist of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
dark-side-magician and dark-lord of the-sith during the-first-sith-empire.
the-junior-novelization of the-rise of skywalker references sadow.
knights of the-old-republic.
knights of the-old-republic rescues knights of the-old-republic after darth-malak destroys knights of the-old-republic ship.
satele shan — voiced by jennifer-hale-grand-master of the-jedi-order in star-wars
one of the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in star-wars.
mandalorian-mercenary who fought for the-separatists in the-clone-wars and later led a-resistance against the-imperial-occupation of mandalore.
cade-skywalker-descendant of luke and mara-jade-skywalker and protagonist of the-star-wars: legacy-comic-series.
the-former-apprentice of darth-vader in star-wars:
the-force unleashed.
she ended the-war by activating the-mass-shadow-generator on malachor-v, nearly destroying the-planet and killing most-combatants on both-sides.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
t3-m4-a-loyal-astromech-droid-companion and playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
cassio's-brothers orman, silas, and ulric are active in the-empire, particularly the family baron orman, who wishes to take revenge against darth-vader for taking darth-vader vision (for which darth-vader now has a-cybernetic-device), and wants to gain the-emperor's-favor by slaying luke and darth-vader rebel friends.
orman, practiced with a-lightsaber, is killed by luke when darth-vader casts an-illusion making it appear that orman is darth-vader.
baron-merillion-tarko — voiced by dee-bradley-baker-imperial-moff who controls the-empire's-operations on the-planet cato-neimoidia in star-wars: the-force unleashed-ii.
following palpatine's-death at the-battle of endor, palpatine attempted to join the-central-committee of grand-moffs, but changed palpatine mind and was executed under charges of treason.
led one of the-separatist-assaults on mon-calamari; killed by darth-vader on mustafar.
darth traya — voiced by sara kestelman one of the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in knights of the-old-republic.
triclops created from extracting the-dna from palpatine and inserted into a-woman named niobi.
later found by luke-skywalker and joined the-alliance.
the-self-proclaimed-son of palpatine and the-ruler of half of the-empire.
odan-urr-draethos-male-jedi-librarian who commissioned the-great-library of ossus following the-great-hyperspace-war, a-massive-library and training-ground erected by the-jedi-order on the-planet ossus.
master-ooroo permitted odan-urr to study the-lore of the-sith because odan-urr believed odan-urr would never stray from the-light-side of the-force.
four-centuries after ooroo's-death and served the-jedi for another-six-centuries.
odan-urr believed that the-only-way to truly master the-force was to first fully understand the-jedi-code.
catherine-taber-twi'lek is the-best-friend of zaalbar, and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
shado-vao-padawan of jedi-council-member-kol-skywalker at the-time of the-sith's-massacre of the-jedi on ossus in the-star-wars: legacy-comics.
her dies under interrogation by jacen, further pushing jacen solo's galactic-army-guard towards the-dark-side of the-force and jacen solo's galactic-army-guard ultimate-rebirth as darth-caedus.
the-old-republic (abbreviated as swtor or tor by fans).
regains vima-da-boda fallen old republic jedi connection to the-force after aiding leia-organa-solo in dark-empire-ii and empire's-end./-v /
the-force unleashed ii
as fett's-occasional-partner, she followed fett to cato-neimoidia, shortly after fett received a-mission from darth-vader to apprehend a-renegade-clone of the-late-galen-marek-prince-xizor
a-character in shadows of the-empire is a-falleen and head of the-black-sun-criminal-syndicate, depicted "like the-godfather with a-reptilian-overlay".
a-character in shadows of the-empire puts a-hit on luke-skywalker, so that darth-vader will suffer the-emperor's-wrath and the-emperor will become the-emperor apprentice and the-emperor grip on the-galaxy will be supreme.
him is the-best-friend of mission-vao, and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
he later becomes dissastified with palpatine's-rule as emperor and attempts to overthrow palpatine, but is stopped by darth-vader and grand-admiral-thrawn.
she takes the-mantle of dark-lord of the-sith from she master.
zekk-jedi-friend of jacen and jaina-solo, appearing in young-jedi-knights, the-new-jedi-order, legacy of the-force and fate of the-jedi-series.
zekk-jedi-friend of jacen and jaina-solo, appearing in young-jedi-knights, the-new-jedi-order, legacy of the-force and fate of the-jedi-series was discovered to be force sensitive in the-jedi-series and was trained by the-shadow-academy as a-dark-jedi, but later joined the-new-jedi-order.
in fate of the-jedi, in fate of the-jedi marries taryn-zel, despite previously expressing romantic-interest in jaina.
first featured in the-lost-city of the-jedi and later-returns in star-wars: rebellion.
list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars books ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), forming what is collectively referred to as the-original-trilogy.
years later, a-prequel-trilogy was released, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
the-last-jedi (2017), and concluded with episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
in 1984 and 1985, two-live-action-films featuring the-ewoks were televised in the-united-states and released theatrically in europe.
the-first-film released, star-wars (1977), is the-fourth-film chronologically and was later subtitled episode-iv – a-new-hope.
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) and concludes with episode ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-story follows each-generation of the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family and the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family struggle against the-evil-sith-lord-palpatine (darth-sidious).
the-prequel-trilogy follows his-children, luke and leia, as his-children, luke and leia join the-rebel-alliance and battle-vader, palpatine and his-galactic-empire.
the-prequel trilogy features ben-solo-a.k.a-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin—who seeks to rule the-galaxy with rey, the-granddaughter of palpatine and the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke and leia.
as lucas was outlining a-trilogy of trilogies, lucas also imagined making additional-movies unrelated to the-skywalker-saga.
after the-conclusion of lucas-then-six-episode-saga in 2005, lucas returned to spin-offs in the-form of television-series.
an-animated-film, the-clone-wars (2008), was released as a-pilot to a-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-first-entry, rogue one: a-star-wars-story (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans directly before episode-iv.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
preceding the-airing of the-animated-tv-series in late 2008, the-theatrical-feature star-wars: the-clone-wars was compiled from episodes "almost [as] an-afterthought.
it reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith; the-series explains padawan-ahsoka-tano's-absence from the-latter-film.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-character had become a fan favorite.
the-film and series exist in the-same-level of canon as the-episodic-and-anthology-films.
before selling lucasfilm to disney in 2012, and parallel to his-development of a-sequel-trilogy, george-lucas and original-trilogy-co-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan started development on a-standalone-film about a-young-han-solo.
the-death-star-laser was developed by scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) after the-empire forcibly abducted scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen), separating scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) from scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) daughter-jyn.
in may 2014, lucasfilm announced gareth-edwards as the-director of an-anthology-film, with gary-whitta writing the-first-draft for a-release on december 16, 2016.
the-film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated-star-wars-tv-series, namely-the-clone-wars'-saw-gerrera, portrayed by forest-whitaker in the-film.
the-film received generally-positive-reviews, with the-film performances, action-sequences, soundtrack, visual-effects and darker-tone being praised.
the-film grossed over us$500 million worldwide within a-week of the-film release.
after an-escape-attempt from his-imperial-occupied-home-planet of corellia goes wrong, a-young-han vows to return to rescue a-young-han girlfriend qi'ra.
before selling lucasfilm to disney, george-lucas had hired star-wars-original-trilogy-veteran-lawrence-kasdan to write a-film about a-young-han-solo.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
lucasfilm originally hired phil-lord and christopher-miller to direct, but phil-lord and christopher-miller were fired during principal-photography, and replaced by ron-howard.
a-twist-ending acknowledges one of the-major-story-arcs of the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-series, while leaving the-story open ended for sequels.
during disney-investor-day 2020, rogue-squadron (2023) ==== was announced that patty-jenkins would direct a-film titled rogue-squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023.
the-film will be the-first-film in the-franchise directed by a-woman, and according to starwars.com, "will introduce a-new-generation of starfighter-pilots as they earn they wings and risk
according to jenkins, the-film will be "something original with great-influence from the-games and the-books.
in mid-2018, lucasfilm confirmed that multiple-anthology-films were in development, with multiple-anthology-films release following a-hiatus after 2019's-the-rise of skywalker.
the-ewoks from return of the-jedi were featured in two-spin-off-television-films, the-ewok-adventure and ewoks:
both are set between the-events of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
although based on story-ideas from lucas, both do not bear star-wars in both-titles, and were considered to exist in a-lower-level of canon than both.
the-battle for endor would be the-last-live-action-star-wars-television-project produced by lucasfilm until 2019's-the-mandalorian.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor.
among other-stylistic-choices making the-film unique from the-star-wars-episodes is the-inclusion of a-narrator.
in december 2020, a-droid-story, an-animated-adventure-film for disney+ was announced.
the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
in august 2017, an-undisclosed-spin-off-film was rumored that films focused on jabba the-hutt, and jedi-masters-obi-wan and yoda were being considered or were in development.
at d23-expo in august 2019, at d23-expo was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
felicity-jones, who played jyn-erso in rogue-one, has the-option of another-star-wars-film in her-contract; notwithstanding her-character's-fate in rogue-one, it has been speculated that her could return in other-anthology-films.
lucasfilm swiftly denied the-rumors as "inaccurate", confirming that multiple-unannounced-films were in development.
game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss were to write and produce a-trilogy of star-wars-films scheduled to be released in december 2022, 2024, and 2026, which were first announced to be in development in february 2018.
however, citing game of thrones-creators david-benioff and d.-b.-weiss commitment to a-netflix-deal, the-duo stepped away from the-project in october 2019.
list of star-wars cast members list of star-wars characters list of star-wars television series
a-new-hope) is a-1977-american-epic-space-opera-film written and directed by george-lucas, produced by lucasfilm and distributed by 20th-century-fox.
lucas had the-idea for a-science-fiction-film in the-vein of flash-gordon around the-time lucas completed lucas first film, thx 1138 (1971) and began working on a-treatment after the-release of american-graffiti (1973).
star-wars focuses on the-journey of luke-skywalker (hamill), who along with the-wizened-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi (guinness), smuggler-han-solo (ford), and his-wookiee-companion-chewbacca (mayhew), attempts to free princess-leia (fisher) from the-clutches of the-tyrannical-galactic-empire.
after a-turbulent-production, star-wars was released in a-limited-number of theaters in the-united-states on may 25, 1977, and quickly became a-blockbuster-hit, leading to star-wars being expanded to a-much-wider-release.
the-film opened to critical-acclaim, most notably for
the-film groundbreaking-visual-effects.
the-film grossed a-total of $775 million (over $550 million during the-film initial run), surpassing jaws (1975) to become
the-film at the-time until the-release of e.t. the-extra-terrestrial (1982).
when adjusted for inflation, star-wars is the-second-highest-grossing-film in north-america (behind gone with the-wind) and the-fourth-highest-grossing-film in the-world.
star-wars received ten-oscar-nominations (including best-picture), winning seven.
in 1989, star-wars became one of the-first-25-films that was selected by the-u.s.-library of congress for preservation in the-national-film-registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
the-film's-success led to two-critically-and-commercially-successful-sequels, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), and later to a-prequel-trilogy, a-sequel-trilogy, two-anthology-films and various-spin-off-tv-series.
before is captured, leia hides the-plans in the-memory of astromech-droid-r2-d2, who flees in an-escape-pod to the-desert-planet-tatooine accompanied by protocol-droid-c-3po.
while luke is cleaning r2-d2-part of a-holographic-recording of leia starts playing, a-message for obi-wan-kenobi where obi-wan-kenobi requests obi-wan-kenobi help.
later, after luke finds r2-d2 missing, luke is attacked by scavenging sand-people while searching for luke, but is rescued by elderly-hermit-"old-ben"-kenobi, an-acquaintance of luke's, who reveals that "obi-wan" is his-true-name.
obi-wan tells luke of obi-wan days as one of the-jedi-knights, the-former-peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who drew mystical-abilities from a-metaphysical-energy-field known as "the-force", but were ultimately hunted to near-extinction by the-empire.
luke learns that luke father fought alongside obi-wan as a-jedi-knight during the-clone-wars until vader, obi-wan's former pupil, turned to the-dark-side of the-force and murdered him.
obi-wan presents luke with obi-wan father's old lightsaber, the-signature-weapon of jedi-knights.
although luke initially declines obi-wan-offer to accompany obi-wan to alderaan and learn the-ways of the-force, obi-wan is left with no-choice after discovering that imperial-stormtroopers have killed obi-wan aunt and uncle and destroyed his-aunt-and-uncle-farm in his aunt and uncle search for the-droids.
traveling to a-cantina in mos-eisley to search for transport, luke and obi-wan hire han-solo, a-smuggler with a-price on his-head due to his-debt to local-mobster jabba the-hutt.
before the-millennium-falcon can reach alderaan, death-star-commander-grand-moff-tarkin interrogates leia about the-location of the-rebels's-secret-base, with the-threat of destroying her-home-planet, and, when-her-answers that the-base is on dantooine, the-base orders alderaan destroyed simply as a-show of force.
as the-group arrives in the-asteroid-field that now stands in place of alderaan, han spots an-imperial-tie-fighter and is taunted into chasing an-imperial-tie-fighter and shooting an-imperial-tie-fighter down, allowing the-millennium-falcon the-millennium-falcon to be captured by the-space-station's-tractor-beam.
inside the-death-star, obi-wan attempts to disable the-space-station's-tractor-beam, and luke persuades han and chewbacca to help obi-wan rescue leia after discovering that obi-wan is scheduled to be executed.
using a-tracking-device, the-empire tracks the-death-star with leia to the-hidden-rebel-base, actually located on yavin-iv.
while han abandons the-rebels after collecting han reward for rescuing leia, luke joins their-starfighter-squadron in a-desperate-attack against the-death-star with leia.
in the-ensuing-battle, the-rebels suffer heavy-losses as vader leads a-squadron of tie-fighters against the-rebels, but han unexpectedly returns to aid the-rebels in the-death-star with leia, narrowly managing to save luke before vader can shoot luke down.
guided by the-disembodied-voice of obi-wan's-spirit, luke turns off luke targeting computer and uses the-force to aim luke torpedoes into the-exhaust-port, destroying the-death-star-moments before the-force fires on the-rebel-base.
lucas favored casting young-actors who lacked long-experience.
to play luke (then known as luke starkiller), lucas sought actors who could project intelligence and integrity.
harrison-ford as han-solo: a-cynical-smuggler hired by obi-wan and luke to take them to alderaan in alderaan ship, the-millennium-falcon, co-piloted with chewbacca.
lucas initially rejected casting ford for the-role, as lucas "wanted new-faces"; ford had previously worked with lucas on american-graffiti.
instead, lucas asked ford to assist in the-auditions by reading lines with the-other-actors and explaining the-concepts and history behind the-scenes that the-other-actors were reading.
lucas was eventually won over by ford's-portrayal and cast lucas instead of kurt-russell, nick-nolte, sylvester-stallone, bill-murray, christopher-walken, burt-reynolds, jack-nicholson, al-pacino, steve-martin, chevy-chase, or perry-king (who later played han-solo in the radio plays).
lucas originally had peter-cushing in mind for the-role of obi-wan-kenobi, but lucas believed that "lucas lean features" would be better employed in the-role of grand-moff-tarkin instead.
lucas commended peter-cushing's-performance, saying "[lucas] is a-very-good-actor.
an-aging-jedi-master and former-mentor of darth-vader who introduces luke to the-force.
according to mifune's-daughter, mika-kitagawa, japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) father turned down lucas' offers for kenobi and darth-vader because "japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) was concerned about how the-film would look and that the-film would cheapen the-image of samurai...
guinness was one of the-few-cast-members who believed that the-film would be successful; japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) negotiated a-deal for 2.25% of the-one-fifth-gross-royalties paid to lucas, which made japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) quite wealthy in later-life.
lucas credited he with inspiring the-cast and crew to work harder, saying that guinness contributed significantly to the-completion of the-filming.
a-protocol-droid who is "fluent in over-six-million-forms of communication" saw a-ralph-mcquarrie-drawing of the-character and was struck by the-vulnerability in the-robot's-face.
initially, lucas did not intend to use anthony-daniels as c-3po:
lucas originally intended for orson-welles to voice the-character after dismissing david-prowse due to david-prowse west country english accent (which led to david-prowse being nicknamed, within the-cast, as "darth-farmer").
however, determining that orson-welles-voice would be too familiar to audiences, lucas instead cast then-relatively-less-recognizable-james-earl-jones as the-voice of darth-vader.
lucas had the-idea for a-space-fantasy-film in 1971, after lucas completed directing lucas first-full-length-feature, thx 1138.
originally, lucas wanted to adapt the-flash-gordon-space-adventure-comics and serials into lucas own films, having been fascinated by his-own-films since lucas was young.
lucas later said: i especially loved the-flash-gordon-serials ...
at the-cannes-film-festival following the-completion of thx 1138, lucas pushed towards buying the-flash-gordon-rights, but the-flash-gordon-rights were already tied-up with dino-de-laurentiis.
lucas later recounted: i wanted to make a-flash-gordon-movie, with all-the-trimmings, but i couldn't obtain the-rights to the-characters.
director-francis-ford-coppola, who accompanied lucas in trying to buy the-flash-gordon-rights, recounted in 1999: "
lucas would later claim that lucas had the-idea for an-original-space-opera long before 1971, and that lucas even tried to film it before american-graffiti.
believing that the-bleak-tone of thx 1138 led to its-poor-reception, lucas chose to make star-wars more optimistic; this is what led to its-fun-and-adventurous-tone.
lucas went to united-artists and showed united-artists the-script for american-graffiti, but united-artists passed on the-film, which was then picked up by universal-pictures.
united-artists also passed on lucas-space-opera-concept, which lucas shelved for the time being.
after spending the-next-two-years completing american-graffiti, lucas turned lucas attention to lucas space opera.
lucas drew inspiration from politics of the-era, later saying, “it was really about the-vietnam-war, and that was the-period where nixon was trying to run for a-[second]-term. "
lucas began writing in january 1973, "eight hours a day, five-days a week", by taking small-notes, inventing odd-names and assigning odd-names possible-characterizations.
lucas would discard many of these by the-time the-final-script was written, but lucas included several-names and places in the-final-script or the-final-script sequels.
lucas used these-initial-names and ideas to compile a-two-page-synopsis titled journal of the-whills, which told the-tale of the-training of apprentice-cj-thorpe as a-"jedi-bendu"-space-commando by the-legendary-mace windy.
frustrated that his-story was too difficult to understand, lucas then began writing a-13-page-treatment called the star wars on april 17, 1973, which had narrative-parallels with kurosawa's-1958-film the-hidden-fortress.
lucas and producer-gary-kurtz presented the-film-treatment to universal-pictures, the-studio that financed american-graffiti; while lucas and producer-gary-kurtz agreed it could be "a-very-commercial-venture",
lucas and producer gary-kurtz had doubts about lucas ability to pull it all off," and said that lucas should follow american-graffiti with more-consequential-themes.
lucas said, "i've always been an-outsider to hollywood-types.
kurtz said, "although star-wars wasn't like [then-current-science-fiction] at all, it was just sort of lumped into that-same-kind of category.
"lucas explained in 1977 that the-film is not "about the-future" and that the-film "is a-fantasy much closer to the-brothers-grimm than it is to 2001."
lucas would later recontextualize the-discussion around the-film, saying the-film was born out of research into "psychological-underpinings of mythology", a claim that had been dismissed by kurtz as self-aggrandizing: "
the-whole-idea of star-wars as a-mythological-thing, i think came about because of [later--lucas]-interviews that tied the-film to the-hero with a-thousand-faces" and by steven-hart and michael-kaminski: "it is here that the-true-origin of star-wars comes from -- not from myth and legend, but from the-'schlock' sold on newspapers stands and played in matinees.
lucas and kurtz, in pitching the-film, said that it would be "low-budget, roger-corman-style, and the-budget was never going to be more than—
after disney rejected the-project, lucas and kurtz persisted in securing a-studio to support the-film because "other-people had read the-film and said, 'yeah, the-film could be a-good-idea.'
lucas pursued alan-ladd-jr., the-head of 20th-century-fox, and in june 1973 completed a-deal to write and direct the-film.
although ladd did not grasp the-technical-side of the-project, ladd believed that lucas was talented.
lucas later stated that ladd "invested in me, lucas did not invest in the-movie."
the-deal gave lucas $150,000 to write and direct the-film.
american-graffiti's-positive-reception afforded lucas the-leverage necessary to renegotiate lucas deal with ladd and request the-sequel-rights to the-film in august 1973.
since commencing lucas-writing-process in january 1973, lucas had done "various-rewrites in the-evenings after the-day's-work.
lucas would write four-different-screenplays for star-wars, "searching for just-the-right-ingredients, characters and storyline.
lucas envisioned the-corellian-smuggler, han-solo, as a-large,-green-skinned-monster with gills.
lucas based chewbacca on lucas alaskan malamute dog, indiana (whom lucas would later use as eponym for lucas character indiana jones), who often acted as the director's "co-pilot" by sitting in the-passenger-seat of lucas car.
lucas completed a-second-draft in january 1975 as adventures of the-starkiller, episode one: the-star-wars, making heavy-simplifications and introducing the-young-hero on a-farm as luke-starkiller.
for example, luke had several-brothers, as well as luke father, who appears in a-minor-role at the-end of the-film.
this-draft was also the first to introduce the-concept of a jedi turning to the-dark-side: this-draft included a-historical-jedi who was the first to ever fall to the-dark-side, and then trained the-sith to use this-version.
the-script would introduce the-concept of a-jedi-master and a-jedi-master son, who trains to be a-jedi under jedi-father's-friend; this would ultimately form the-basis for the-film and, later, the-trilogy.
according to lucas, the-second-draft was over 200 pages long, and led lucas to split up the-story into multiple-films spanning over multiple-trilogies.
lucas began to rewrite the-second-draft, creating a-synopsis for the-third-draft.
during work on this-rewrite, lucas began researching the-science-fiction-genre by watching films and reading books (including j.-r.-r.-tolkien's-the-hobbit) and comics.
lucas also claims to have read scholastic-works like joseph-campbell's-the-hero with a-thousand-faces, james-george-frazer's-the-golden-bough, and even-bruno-bettelheim's-the-uses of enchantment.
these-claims are doubted by michael-kaminski and chris-taylor, with michael-kaminski pointing out that bettelheim's-book would not come out until after star-wars was filmed and adding that "the-original-trilogy-campbell-connection is greatly exaggerated and practically non-existent", noting that, in fact, the-second-draft is "even closer to campbell's-structure" than the-third.
according to lucas, lucas wrote a-rough-draft of about-250–300-pages long, which contained the-outline for the-entire-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas realized that it was too long for a-single-film, and decided to subdivide it into a-trilogy.
lucas stated that the-story evolved over time and that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as it exists now [in 1983] ...
in 1975 lucas suggested he could make a-trilogy, which "ends with the-destruction of the-empire" and a-possible-prequel "about the-backstory of kenobi as a-young-man."
after the-film's-smash-success, lucasfilm announced that lucas had already written "twelve-stories in the-adventures of luke-skywalker" which, according to kurtz, were set to be "separate-adventures rather than direct-sequels. "
the-writing of the-third-draft, lucas hired conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to create paintings of certain-scenes, several of which lucas included with lucas screenplay when lucas delivered conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to 20th-century-fox.
subsequently, lucas started writing with a-budget in mind, conceiving the cheap, "used" look of much of the-film, and (with fox having just shut down the-film special effects department) reducing the-number of complex-special-effects-shots called for by the-script.
the-third-draft, dated august 1, 1975, was titled the star wars from the-adventures of luke-starkiller.
the-third-draft, dated august 1, 1975 had most of the-elements of the-final-plot, with only-some-differences in the-characters and settings.
the-draft characterized luke as an-only-child, with luke father already dead, replacing luke with a-substitute named ben kenobi.
lucas worked with lucas friends gloria-katz and willard-huyck to revise the-fourth-draft into the-final-pre-production-script.
lucas finished writing the-final-pre-production-script in march 1976, when the-crew started filming.
during production, he changed luke's-name from starkiller to skywalker and altered the-title to the-star-wars and later-star-wars.
for the-film's-opening-crawl, lucas originally wrote a-composition consisting of six-paragraphs with four-sentences each.
lucas said, "the-crawl is such-a-hard-thing because you have to be careful that you're not using too-many-words that people don't understand.
" lucas showed his-draft to his-friends.
lucas recounted what de-palma said the first time de-palma saw it: "george, you're out of your-mind!
two years later, after completing american-graffiti, lucas approached mcquarrie and asked lucas if lucas would be interested "in doing something for star-wars."
the-film was ambitious as lucas wanted to create fresh-prop-prototypes and sets (based on mcquarrie's-paintings) that had never been realized before in science-fiction-films.
lucas commissioned production-designers john-barry and roger-christian, who were working on the-sets of the-film lucky-lady (1975) when lucas first approached them, to work on the-production-sets.
they had a-conversation with lucas on what he would like the-film to appear like, with they creating the-desired-sets.
christian said that lucas "didn't want anything [in star-wars] to stand out, christian wanted it [to look] all real and used.
lucas described a-"used-future"-concept to the-production-designers in which all-devices, ships, and buildings to do with tatooine or the-rebels looked aged and dirty, as opposed to the-sleeker-designs of the-empire.
lucas also wanted the-spaceships to look "cobbled together, as opposed to a-sleek-monoshape."
" lucas believed that "what is required for true-credibility is a-used-future", opposing the-interpretation of "future in most-futurist-movies" that "always looks new and clean and shiny."
"the-designers started working with the-director before star-wars was approved by 20th-century-fox.
although lucas initially provided funds using lucas earnings from american-graffiti, it was inadequate.
he suggested that lucas use scrap in making the-dressings, and the-director agreed.
in 1975, lucas formed lucas own visual-effects-company-industrial-light & magic (ilm) after discovering that 20th-century-fox's-visual-effects-department had been disbanded.
ilm began ilm work on star-wars in a-warehouse in van-nuys.
however, since the-film is a-fairy-tale, as george-lucas had described, "i still wanted the-film to have an-ethereal-quality, yet be well composed and, also, have an-alien-look."
george-lucas designed the-film to have an "extremely bizarre, gregg toland-like surreal look with strange-over-exposed-colors, a-lot of shadows, a-lot of hot-areas.
" lucas wanted star-wars to embrace the-combination of "strange-graphics of fantasy" and "the-feel of a-documentary" to impress a-distinct-look.
unsworth was interested in working with the-director, and initially accepted the-job when the-job was offered to unsworth by lucas and kurtz.
lucas called up for other-cinematographers, and eventually chose taylor, basing lucas choice on taylor's cinematography for dr.-strangelove and a-hard-day's-night (both 1964).
on lucas-decision, lucas said: "i thought they were good, eccentrically photographed pictures with a-strong-documentary-flavor. "
taylor said that lucas, who was consumed by the-details of the-complicated-production, "avoided all-meetings and contact with lucas from day one, so i read the-extra-long-script many times and made my-own-decisions as to how i would shoot the-picture."
during production, lucas and taylor—whom kurtz called "old-school" and "crotchety"—had disputes over filming.
with a-background in independent-filmmaking, lucas was accustomed to creating most of the-elements of the-film himself.
his-lighting-suggestions were rejected by taylor, who believed that lucas was overstepping lucas boundaries by giving specific-instructions, sometimes even moving lights and cameras himself.
lucas would] say, 'turn off this-light, and turn off this-light.'
originally, lucas envisioned the-planet of tatooine, where much of the-film would take place, as a-jungle-planet.
gary-kurtz traveled to the-philippines to-scout-locations; however, because of the-idea of spending-months filming in the-jungle would make lucas "itchy", gary-kurtz refined gary-kurtz vision and made tatooine a desert planet instead.
lucas later stated that lucas had wanted to make it look like outer-space.
lucas fell behind schedule in the-first-week of shooting due to malfunctioning-props and electronic-breakdowns.
" given this-situation, lucas requested heavy-filtration, which taylor rejected, who said: "i thought the-look of the-film should be absolutely clean ...
but george saw the-film differently, so we tried using nets and other-diffusion.
lucas chose hotel-sidi-driss, which is larger than the-typical-underground-dwellings, to shoot the-interior of luke's-homestead.
star-wars required the-use of nine-different-sound-stages simultaneously, which most-studios couldn't accommodate.
because of stricter-working-conditions, filming in britain had to finish by 5:30-pm, unless lucas was in the-middle of a-scene.
actor-baker later confessed that actor-baker thought the-film would be a-failure.
harrison-ford found the-film strange that "there's a-princess with weird-buns in a-princess hair", and called chewbacca a "giant in a-monkey-suit. "
lucas commissioned computer-programmer-larry-cuba to create the-animated-death-star-plans shown at the-rebel-base on yavin 4.
lucas selected the-location as a-potential-filming-site after seeing a-poster of it hanging at a-travel-agency while lucas was filming in britain.
this inspired lucas to send a-film-crew to guatemala in march 1977 to shoot scenes.
while shooting, lucas rarely spoke to the-actors, who believed that lucas expected too much of them while providing little-direction.
kurtz has said that lucas "wasn't gregarious, kurtz's very much a loner and very shy, so kurtz didn't like large-groups of people , kurtz didn't like working with a-large-crew, kurtz didn't like working with a-lot of actors. "
ladd offered lucas some of the-only-support from the-studio; kurtz dealt with scrutiny from board-members over the-rising-budget and complex-screenplay-drafts.
" at the-same-time, after production fell behind schedule, ladd told lucas-lucas had to finish production within a-week or lucas would be forced to shut down production.
star-wars was originally slated for release on christmas 1976; however, star-wars production delays pushed the-film's-release to mid-1977.
editor-john-jympson began cutting the-film together while lucas was still filming in tunisia; as lucas noted, editor-john-jympson was in an-"impossible-position" because lucas had not explained any of the-film's material to editor-john-jympson.
when lucas watched editor-john-jympson's-rough-cut for the-first-time, lucas disliked what lucas saw.
j.-w.-rinzler wrote that "jympson's-selection of takes was questionable, and lucas seemed to be having trouble doing match-cuts.
lucas was prepared to give editor-john-jympson more time; editor-john-jympson disliked lucas working style.
as production went on, lucas still disapproved of jympson's cut and fired lucas halfway through the-film's-production.
lucas commented: "unfortunately it didn't work out.
in the-end, i don't think lucas fully understood the-movie and
after attempting to persuade jympson to cut the-film his-way, lucas replaced his with paul-hirsch, richard-chew and richard-chew then-wife, marcia lucas, who was also cutting the-film new-york, new-york (1977) with lucas's friend martin-scorsese.
richard-chew considered the-film to have been cut in a slow, by-the-book manner: scenes were played out in master-shots that flowed into close-up-coverage.
the-most-significant-material-cut was a-series of scenes from the-first-part of the-film which introduced luke-skywalker.
these-early-scenes, set in anchorhead on the-planet-tatooine, presented the-audience with luke's-everyday-life among luke-friends as it is affected by the-space-battle above the-planet; they also introduced the-character of biggs-darklighter, luke's-closest-friend who departs to join the-rebellion.
so we simplified the-film by taking out luke and biggs.
in an-examination of this-early-cut, which has come to be called the "lost cut", david-west-reynolds noted the-film adopted a-"documentary-like"-approach that emphasized "clarity, especially in geographic-and-spatial-relationships" over "dramatic-or-artistic-concerns".
as a-result, the-film was more "leisurely paced".
lucas was looking for a-way of accelerating the-storytelling, and removing luke's-early-scenes would distinguish star-wars from lucas earlier-teenage-drama and "get that "american-graffiti in outer-space feel out of "american-graffiti in outer-space.
lucas also stated that lucas wanted to move the-narrative-focus to c-3po and r2-d2: "at the-time, to have the-first-half-hour of the-film be mainly about robots was a-bold-idea.
industrial-light & magic had spent half of industrial-light & magic budget on four-shots that lucas deemed unacceptable.
lucas inspired ilm by editing together aerial-dogfights from old-war-films, which enhanced the-pacing of the-scenes.
sound-designer-ben-burtt had created a-library of sounds that lucas referred to as an-"organic-soundtrack."
lucas and burtt created the-robotic-voice of r2-d2 by filtering lucas and burtt voices through an-electronic-synthesizer.
in february 1977, lucas screened an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book.
an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book had a-different-crawl from the-finished-version and used prowse's-voice for darth-vader's.
an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book also lacked most-special-effects; hand-drawn-arrows took the-place of blaster-beams, and when the-millennium-falcon fought tie-fighters, an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book cut to footage of world-war-ii-dogfights.
lucas later said that the-group was honest and seemed bemused by the-film.
lucas found the-experience shocking and rewarding, having never gained any-approval from studio-executives before.
with the-project $2 million over budget, lucas was forced to make numerous-artistic-compromises to complete star-wars.
lucas had to write around a-scene featuring a-human-jabba the-hutt, which was scrapped due to not being in focus.
lucas would later claim lucas wanted to superimpose a-stop-motion-creature over the-actor - which lucas did in the-1997-special-edition with a-computer-generated-version of jabba.
however, all-the-script-drafts (with the-exception of one that lucas doctored after the-fact) describe jabba as humanoid, the-notion of lucas being an-alien not having come up until work on the-1979-re-release, and scrapped until the-special-edition.
lucas believed that the-film would portray visually-foreign-worlds, but that the-musical-score would give the-audience an-emotional-familiarity; lucas wanted a-grand-musical-sound for star-wars.
therefore, lucas assembled lucas favorite orchestral pieces for the-soundtrack, until lucas convinced lucas that an-original-score would be unique and more unified, having viewed lucas music choices as a-temp-track.
lucas would later deny having ever conceived using extant-music for the-film.
in march 1977, lucas conducted the-london-symphony-orchestra to record the-soundtrack in 12-days.
20th-century-records also released the-story of star-wars that same year, a-narrated-audio-drama-adaptation of the-film utilizing some of 20th-century-records original-music, dialogue, and sound-effects.
according to george-lucas, different-concepts of the-film were inspired by numerous-sources, such as beowulf and king-arthur for the-origins of myth and religion.
star-wars features many-elements derived from flash-gordon, such as the-conflict between rebels and imperial-forces, the-wipes between scenes, the-fusion of futuristic-technology and traditional-mythology, and the-famous-opening-crawl that begins each-film.
the-film has also been compared to the-wizard of oz.
the-influence of the-hidden-fortress can be seen in the-relationship between c-3po and r2-d2, which evolved from the-two-bickering-peasants, tahei and matashichi, and a-japanese-family-crest seen in the-film is similar to the-imperial-crest.
star-wars also borrows heavily from another-kurosawa-film, yojimbo (1961).
arrakis is the-only-known-source of a-longevity-spice; star-wars makes references to spice in "the-spice-mines of kessel", and a-spice-freighter.
frank-herbert reported that "david-lynch, [director of the-1984-film-dune] had trouble with the-fact that star-wars used up so much of the-1984-film-dune.
in addition, the-sequence was partially inspired by the-climax of the-film 633 squadron (1964), directed by walter-grauman, in which raf-de-havilland-mosquitos attack a-german-heavy-water-plant by flying down a-narrow-fjord to drop special-bombs at a-precise-point, while avoiding anti-aircraft-guns and german-fighters.
the-earlier-big-budget-science-fiction-film influenced the-look of star-wars in many-other-ways, including the-use of eva-pods and hexagonal-corridors.
while the-film was in production, a-logo was commissioned from dan-perri, a-title-sequence-designer who had worked on the-titles for films such as the-exorcist (1973) and taxi-driver (1976).
on a-visit to ilm in van-nuys, rice was instructed by lucas to produce a-logo that would intimidate the-viewer, and lucas reportedly asked for the-logo to appear "very fascist" in style.
lucas signed off on this-brochure in between takes while filming inserts for the-mos-eisley-cantina-scene.
20th-century-fox-poster, known as style ‘a’, depicted luke-skywalker standing in a-heroic-pose, brandishing a-shining-lightsaber above luke-skywalker head, with princess-leia below luke-skywalker, and a-large,-ghostly-image of darth-vader's-helmet looming behind them.
fox and lucasfilm subsequently decided that fox and lucasfilm wanted to promote the-uk-release with a-less-stylized-and-more-realistic-depiction of the-lead-characters.
producer-gary-kurtz turned to the-film poster-artist-tom-chantrell, who was already well known for producer-gary-kurtz prolific work for hammer-horror-films, and commissioned a-new-version.
two months after star-wars opened, the-hildebrandts'-style-‘b’-poster was replaced by chantrell's-style-‘c’-poster in uk-cinemas.
a fan of science-fiction, charles-lippincott used charles-lippincott contacts to promote the-film at the-san-diego-comic-con and elsewhere within science-fiction-fandom.
while initially being released only in a-limited-theatrical-run, star-wars was an-unprecedented-success for 20th-century-fox, soon becoming a-blockbuster-hit and expanding to a-much-wider-release.
worried that star-wars would be beaten out by other-summer-films, such as smokey and the-bandit, 20th-century-fox moved the-release-date to may 25, the wednesday before memorial-day.
however, fewer-than-40-theaters ordered the-film to be shown.
in response, the-studio demanded that theaters order star-wars if fewer-than-40-theaters wanted the-eagerly-anticipated-the-other-side of midnight based on sidney-sheldon's-1973-novel by the-same-name.
star-wars debuted on wednesday, may 25, 1977, in fewer-than-32-theaters, and eight more on thursday and friday.
lucas himself was not able to predict how successful star-wars would be.
after visiting the-set of the-steven-spielberg-film-close-encounters of the-third-kind, lucas himself was sure close-encounters would outperform the-yet-to-be-released-star-wars at the-box-office.
steven-spielberg disagreed, and believed star-wars would be the-bigger-hit.
lucas proposed they trade 2.5% of the-profit on each-other's-films; spielberg took the-trade, and still receives 2.5% of the-profits from star-wars.
amidst fox-pessimism, lucas elected to forgo lucas option to an-extra-$500,000-fee for directing star-wars, in exchange for releasing ownership of the-merchandising-and-sequel-rights for the-movie to fox.
while fox requested mann's-chinese-theatre, the-studio promised that the-film needed only-two-weeks.
fearing that the-film would fail, lucas had made plans to be in hawaii with lucas wife marcia.
having forgotten that the-film would open that day, the-film spent most of wednesday in a-sound-studio in los-angeles.
when lucas went out for lunch with marcia, they encountered a-long-line of people along the-sidewalks leading to mann's-chinese-theatre, waiting to see star-wars.
lucas was still skeptical of the-film's-success, even with enthusiastic-reports from ladd and a-sound-studio in los-angeles.
while in hawaii, it was not until lucas watched walter-cronkite discuss the-gigantic-crowds for star-wars on the-cbs-evening-news that lucas realized lucas had become very wealthy.
the-film was a-huge-success for 20th-century-fox, and was credited for reinvigorating the-company.
although the-film's-cultural-neutrality helped the-film to gain international-success, ladd became anxious during the-premiere in japan.
after the-screening, the-audience was silent, leading him to fear that the-film would be unsuccessful.
after two-weeks william-friedkin's-sorcerer replaced star-wars at mann's-chinese-theatre because of contractual-obligations; mann-theatres moved the-film to a-less-prestigious-location after quickly renovating the-film.
when star-wars made an-unprecedented-second-opening at mann's-chinese-theatre on august 3, 1977, after william-friedkin's-sorcerer failed, thousands of people attended a-ceremony in which c-3po, r2-d2 and darth-vader placed thousands of people footprints in the-theater's-forecourt.
at that-time star-wars was playing in 1,096-theaters in the-united-states.
approximately-60-theaters played the-film continuously for over-a-year; in 1978, lucasfilm distributed "birthday-cake"-posters to approximately-60-theaters for special-events on may 25, the-one-year-anniversary of the-film's release.
star-wars premiered in the-uk on december 27, 1977.
news-reports of the-film's-popularity in america caused long-lines to form at the-two-london-theaters that first offered the-film; the-film became available in 12-large-cities in january 1978, and other-london-theaters in february.
star-wars was re-released theatrically in 1978, 1979, 1981 and 1982, with the-subtitle episode-iv – a new hope being added in 1981.
star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes in 1997 for a-theatrical-rerelease, dubbed the "special edition."
since star-wars-original-release, star-wars has also been dubbed and subtitled into numerous-languages.
in 2010, lucas announced that all-six-previously-released-star-wars-films would be scanned and transferred to 3d for a-theatrical-release, but only-3d-versions of the-prequel-trilogy were completed before the-franchise was sold to disney in 2012.
in 2013, star-wars was dubbed into navajo, making it the first major motion picture translated into a-native-american-language.
the-title was changed when the-film entered re-releases.
official-sources state that the-change was made at the-theatrical-re-release of april 10
, 1981.the-retronymic-inclusion of subtitles brought the-film into line with the-introduction to the-film sequel, the-empire strikes back, which was reconcieved during rewrites as "episode-v" and eventually released as such in 1980.
lucas claims this was intended from the-beginning, and was only dropped to avoid confusing audiences: "
star-wars was the-fourth-story in the-saga and was to have been called 'star-wars, episode four:
" hamill recalls having asked lucas "why are we doing episode four?"
and being answered that lucas wanted "to give the-audience a-feeling that the-audience'd missed something and that the-audience were coming into the-middle of this-story" or that it was "the-most-commercial-section" of the-overriding-story.
after ilm used computer-generated-effects for steven-spielberg's-1993-film jurassic-park, lucas decided that digital-technology had caught up to lucas "original vision" for star-wars.
for steven-spielberg's-1993-film-jurassic-park's-20th-anniversary in 1997, star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes and re-released to theaters, along with the-empire
strikes back and return of the-jedi
, under the-campaign-title star-wars trilogy: special edition.
the-process of creating the-new-visual-effects for star-wars was featured in the-documentary-film, special effects:
although most-changes are minor or cosmetic in nature, many-fans and critics believe that lucas degraded the-documentary-film with the-additions.
it was discovered that in addition to the-negative-motion-picture-stocks commonly used on feature-films, lucas had also used color reversal internegative (cri) film, a-reversal-stock subsequently discontinued by kodak.
once the-cleaning was complete, the-film was scanned into the-computer for restoration.
, the-1977-theatrical-version of star-wars was selected for preservation by the-national-film-registry of the-united-states-library of congress.
the-whole-film was released for all-these-countries (including subtitled-silent-editions and an-american-spanish-language-edition), except for italy, where the-film (titled "guerre stellari") was released by ie-international as eight-brief-scenes: battaglia-spaziale ("space-battle", the-battle of yavin), duello-col-laser ("duel with the-laser", obi-wan and darth vader's duel), la-cattura dell'astronave
("the capture of the-spaceship"), la liberazione di leia ("leia's-liberation", the-adventure on the-death-star), messaggio-dallo-spazio ("message from space", leia giving r2-d2 the-plans), sos-nella-galassia ("sos in the-galaxy") and trappola mortale ("deadly-trap", the-falcon being captured by the-death-star).
star-wars debuted on betamax, ced, laserdisc, video 2000, and vhs between the-1980s and 1990s by cbs/fox video.
the-final-issue of the-original-theatrical-release (pre-special-edition) to vhs-format was released for the-first-time on dvd on september 21, 2004, in a-box set with the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and a-bonus-disc of supplementary-material.
the-bonus-disc contains the-documentary-empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy, three-featurettes, teasers, theatrical-trailers, tv-spots, still-galleries, an-exclusive-preview of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, a-playable-xbox-demo of the-lucasarts-game-star-wars: battlefront, and a-making-of-documentary on the-episode-iii-video-game.
the-set was reissued in december 2005 as part of a-three-disc-limited-edition-boxed-set without the-bonus-disc.
the-trilogy was re-released on separate-two-disc-limited-edition-dvd-sets from september 12 to december 31, 2006, and again in a-limited-edition-tin-box set on november 4, 2008; the-original-versions of the-films were added as bonus-material.
all-six-star-wars-films were released by 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment on blu-ray-disc on september 16, 2011 in three-different-editions, with a-new-hope available in both-a-box-set of the-trilogy and with all-six-films on star-wars:
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
fox released a-new-hope for digital-download on april 10, 2015.
in december 2016, rogue-one-director-gareth-edwards revealed that lucasfilm had recently completed a-4k-restoration of star-wars, but did not elaborate on whether the-restored-version was based on the 1977 original or a-subsequent-re-release.
walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued the-film on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
star-wars remains one of the-most-financially-successful-films of all-time.
star-wars opened on a-wednesday in 32-theaters expanding to 43-screens on the-friday and earning $2,556,418 in star-wars first six-days to the-end of the-memorial-day-weekend ($10.8 million in 2019-dollars).
per variety's-weekly-box-office-charts, star-wars was number one at the-us-box-office for star-wars first three weeks.
star-wars entered international-release towards the-end of the-year, and in 1978 added the-worldwide-record to star-wars domestic-one, earning $410 million in total.
star-wars biggest-international-market was japan, where star-wars grossed $58.4 million.
total gross in the-united-states and canada to $460,998,007, reclaiming the-all-time-number-one-spot.
in total, the-film has grossed over $775 million worldwide.
adjusted for inflation, the-film had earned over $2.5 billion worldwide at 2011-prices, which saw the-film ranked as the-third-highest-grossing-film at the-time, according to guinness-world-records.
at the-north-american-box-office, the-film ranks second behind gone with the-wind on the-inflation-adjusted-list.
the-film was met with critical-acclaim upon the-film release.
in his-1977-review, roger-ebert of the-chicago-sun-times called the-film "an out-of-body experience," compared its-special-effects to those of 2001: a space odyssey, and opined that the-true-strength of
the-film was
the-film "pure-narrative."
vincent-canby of the-new-york-times called the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made."
a.d. murphy of variety described the-film as "magnificent" and said george-lucas had succeeded in george-lucas
writing for the-washington-post, gary-arnold gave the-film a-positive-review, writing that the-film "is a-new-classic in a-rousing-movie-tradition: a-space-swashbuckler."
however, the-film was not without the-film detractors: pauline-kael of the-new-yorker criticized star-wars, stating that "there's no-breather in the-picture, no-lyricism", and that the-film had no-"emotional-grip."
john-simon of new-york-magazine also panned the-film and wrote, "strip-star-wars of the-film often striking images and the-film highfalutin scientific jargon, and you get a-story, characters, and dialogue of overwhelming-banality."
stanley-kauffmann, reviewing the-film in the-new-republic, opined that the-film in the-new-republic "was made for those (particularly-males) who carry a-portable-shrine within a-portable-shrine of a-portable-shrine adolescence, a-chalice of a-self that was better
star-wars opened in the-uk, stating that lucas's-earlier-films were better, derek-malcolm of the-guardian concluded that it "plays enough-games to satisfy the most sophisticated."
the-daily-telegraph's-science-correspondent-adrian-berry said that star-wars "is the-best-such-film since 2001 and in certain-respects it is one of the most exciting ever made."
lucas felt hurt at the-accusations.
the-film continues to receive critical-acclaim from modern-critics.
" in his-1997-review of the-film's-20th-anniversary-release, michael-wilmington of the-chicago-tribune gave the-film four-out-of-four-stars, saying, "a-grandiose-and-violent-epic with a-simple-and-whimsical-heart."
a-san-francisco-chronicle-staff-member described the-film as "a-thrilling-experience.
in 2001 matt-ford of the-bbc awarded the-film five out-of-five-stars and wrote, "star-wars isn't the-film, but "star-wars is universally loved."
cinemascore reported that audiences for star-wars 1999 re-release gave the-film a-"a+"-grade.
andrew-collins of empire-magazine awarded the-film five out of five and said, "star-wars'-timeless-appeal lies in star-wars'-timeless-appeal easily identified, universal-archetypes—goodies to root for, baddies to boo, a-princess to be rescued and so on—and if it is most obviously dated to the-70s by the-special-effects, so be it is."
in his-2009-review, robert-hatch of the-nation called the-film "an outrageously successful, what will be called a 'classic,' compilation of nonsense, largely derived but thoroughly reconditioned.
star-wars garnered numerous-accolades after star-wars release.
star-wars won six-competitive-academy-awards at the-50th-academy-awards: best-art-direction, best-costume-design, best-film-editing, best-original-score, best-sound and best-visual-effects.
john-williams's-soundtrack-album won the-grammy-award for best-album of original-score for a-motion-picture-or-television-program, and the-film attained the-hugo-award for best-dramatic-presentation.
the-film also received twelve-nominations at the-saturn-awards, winning nine:
star-wars launched the-careers of many of the-film's-actors: mark-hamill (luke-skywalker), harrison-ford (han-solo), carrie-fisher (princess-leia), peter-mayhew (chewbacca), anthony-daniels (c-3po), and james-earl-jones (voice of darth-vader).
ford, who subsequently starred in the-indiana-jones-series (1981–present), blade-runner (1982), and witness (1985) after working on the-film, told the-daily-mirror that star-wars "boosted my-career", and said, "i think the-great-luck of my-career is that i've made these-family-movies which are introduced to succeeding generations of kids by generations of kids-families at the-time it seems appropriate. "
the-film has spawned a-series of films consisting of three-trilogies (including the-film), anthology-films and an-extensive-media-franchise called the star wars expanded universe including books, television-series, computer and video-games, and comic-books.
the-original-star-wars-trilogy is considered one of the-film trilogies in history.
all of the-main-films have been box-office-successes, with the-overall-box-office-revenue generated by the-star-wars-films (including the-animated-the-clone-wars) totaling over $10.1 billion, making it the second highest-grossing film series as of 2019.the-film also spawned the-star-wars-holiday-special, which debuted on cbs on november 17, 1978 and is often considered a failure; lucas himself disowned it.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was written by brian-daley and directed by john-madden, and was produced with cooperation from george-lucas, who donated the-rights to npr.
the-radio-drama-narrative began with a-version of the-backstory to the-film which relates princess-leia's-acquisition of the-secret-death-star-plans.
a-version of the-backstory to the-film which relates princess-leia's-acquisition of the-secret-death-star-plans was originally considered to be part of the-official-star-wars-canon, but has since been supplanted by revised-canonical-narratives.
star-wars and its-ensuing-film-installments have been explicitly referenced and satirized across a-wide-range of media.
lucas permitted mel-brooks's to make a-spoof of the-film under "one-incredibly-big-restriction: no-action-figures.
the-expressions "evil-empire" and "may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after. "
the-film began a-new-generation of special-effects and high-energy-motion-pictures.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
filmmakers who have said to have been influenced by star-wars include james-cameron, j.j.-abrams, damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, gareth-edwards, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, peter-jackson, joss-whedon, christopher-nolan, ridley-scott, john-singleton, and kevin-smith.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film, inception.
another-critic, peter-biskind, later complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and spielberg returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth."
in an-article intended for the-cover of the-issue, time's-gerald-clarke wrote that star-wars is "a-grand-and-glorious-film that may well be the smash hit of 1977, and certainly is the-best-movie of the-year so far.
star-wars was voted the second most popular film by americans in a-2008-nationwide-poll conducted by the-market-research-firm, harris-interactive.
star-wars has also been featured in several-high-profile-audience-polls: in 1997, star-wars ranked as the-10th-greatest-american-film on the-los-angeles-daily-news-readers'-poll; in 2002, the-film and star-wars sequel
reputable-publications also have included star-wars in reputable-publications best-films-lists: in 2008, empire-magazine ranked star-wars at no.
although lucas declined to provide the-united-states-library of congress with a-workable-copy of the-most-recent-film to be selected upon request (instead offering the-special-edition), a-viewable-scan was made of the-original-copyright-deposit-print.
in addition to the-film's-multiple-awards and nominations, star-wars has also been recognized by the-american-film-institute on several of the-american-film-institute lists.
in addition, the-quote "may the-force be with you" is ranked eighth on 100-years...
the-novelization of the-film was published as star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker in december 1976, six months before the-film was released.
marketing-director-charles-lippincott secured the-deal with del-rey-books to publish the-novelization of the-film in november 1976.
alan-dean-foster also wrote the-sequel-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978) to be adapted as a-low-budget-film if star-wars was not a-financial-success.
marvel-comics also adapted the-film as the-first-six-issues of marvel-comics licensed star-wars-comic-book, with the-first-issue sold in april 1977.
like the-novelization, the-novelization contained certain-elements, such as the-scene with luke and biggs, that appeared in the-screenplay but not in the-film.
the-series was so successful that, according to jim-shooter, the-series "single-handedly saved marvel.
lucasfilm adapted the-story for a-children's-book-and-record-set.
the-record was produced by buena-vista-records, and the-record content was copyrighted by black-falcon, ltd., a-subsidiary of lucasfilm "formed to handle the-merchandising for star-wars."
the-story of star-wars was a-1977-record-album presenting an-abridged-version of the-events depicted in star-wars, using dialogue and sound-effects from the-original-film.
the-story of star-wars was produced by george-lucas and alan-livingston, and was narrated by roscoe-lee-browne.
, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
, the-empire strikes back, was released in 1980.
in 1983, the-final-installment of the-trilogy, return of the-jedi, was released.
a-book of star-wars facts and production-timeline.
the-empire strikes back (1980)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005)
the-force awakens (2015)
the-last-jedi
episode-ix - the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
return of the-jedi from star-wars to the-jedi:
star-wars-locations and their-gps-coordinates---article featuring every-filming-location, lat/long-coordinates and scene comparisons star-wars-locations - fan site devoted to star-wars filming locations star-wars filming locations category on wookieepedia star-wars filming locations category on 501st
episode-ii: attack of the clones episode-iii: revenge of the sith episode iv:
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi-episode-vii:
the-force awakens george-lucas's-filming-locations on movie-locations.com
below is a-list of actors and actresses that are part of the-voice-cast of the-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars and its-corresponding-film.
actors from the-live-action-films who returned to reprise their-roles for the-show include: wood as the-b1-battle-droids and general-grievous, ahmed-best as jar-jar-binks (although binks was voiced by phil-lamarr in three-early-episodes), daniels as c-3po, burtt as r2-d2, chewbacca, and darth-vader's-breaths, daniel-logan as the-young-clone-trooper-cadets and boba-fett, liam-neeson as qui-gon-jinn, and pernilla-august as shmi-skywalker, respectively.
actors who appear by original-recordings from revenge of the-sith to represent their-characters in the-final-season-episode "shattered" include: hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, jackson as mace-windu and ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine.
list of star-wars cast members ==
the-clone-wars at the internet movie database
star-wars is an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.
on august 15, 2008, the-debut-film was released in theaters; the-debut-film served as the-introduction of an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.. an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.
made the-debut-film-debut on the-american-cartoon-network on october 3, 2008.
an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc. is set in the-fictional-star-wars-galaxy during the-three-year-interim between episode-ii-–-attack of the-clones and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (the-same-time-period as the-previous-2003-clone-wars-series).
during the-course of the-series, 133-episodes of star-wars: the-clone-wars were released over seven-seasons, between october 3, 2008, and may 4, 2020.
on march 11, 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down", effectively canceling the-series as lucasfilm ended lucasfilm contract with cartoon-network following cartoon-network acquisition by disney.
season 6, along with the-other-seasons and the-feature-film, were made available on netflix on march 7, 2014.in july 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes on disney+.
12-new-episodes on disney+ served as the-series'-final-season, which premiered on february 21, 2020 and concluded the-series on may 4, 2020.
as a-lead-in to the-tv-series of the-same-name, the-film was released theatrically on august 15, 2008, and was distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
though critical-reception was negative, the-film was a-box-office-success and grossed $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget.
star-wars aired on october 3, 2008, and set a-new-record with cartoon-network as cartoon-network most-watched-series-premiere, attracting 3.992-million-total-viewers.
the season two-premiere, "holocron-heist", was broadcast on october 2, 2009 and attracted 2.581-million-viewers.
meanwhile, the-jedi lead the-republic-forces in an-assault on the-primary-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility.
the-one-hour-season-finale combined of "r2 come home" and "lethal-trackdown" was broadcast on april 30, 2010 and the-original-broadcast received 2.756-million-viewers.
the season three-premiere, consisting of "clone-cadets" and "arc-troopers," was broadcast on september 17, 2010, attracting 2.42-million-viewers.
the-season-finale, consisting of "padawan lost" and "wookiee-hunt", was broadcast on april 1, 2011, attracting 2.31-million-viewers.
the season four-premiere, consisting of "water-war" and "gungan-attack", was broadcast on september 16, 2011, and attracted 1.93-million-viewers, the-lowest-premiere-viewing of all-seasons.
the-season five-premiere, "revival", was broadcast on september 29, 2012, and attracted 1.94-million-viewers.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes to be released on disney+
while the-series is designed to be an-anthology of both-standalone-episodes and small-story-arcs, various-events throughout inform-stories, characters, and relationships to create a-recognizably-continuous-narrative.
in september 2014, lucasfilm released details of multiple-story-arcs from the-unfinished-episodes.
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul: son of dathomir ====
the-scripts and designs for a-four-episode-arc were adapted into a-four-issue-comic-book titled darth maul: son of dathomir, released in august 2014 by the-publisher dark-horse-comics.
the-comic was the-last-star-wars-comic published by dark-horse before lucasfilm transferred the-license to marvel-comics in 2014 and was collected into a-trade-paperback by marvel in 2018.the plot follows darth-maul, who has been captured by darth-sidious.
the-story follows vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released in completed-story-reel-format, titled: "
the-arc takes place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-story reels for this-four-episode-arc were screened on april 17, 2015, at star-wars-celebration-anaheim, and were released on the-official-star-wars-website on april 29, 2015.
list of star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-list of star-wars:
this is a-list of star-wars cast-members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983) and reprised the-roles in the-sequel
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017) and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (2019).
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith (2005) as a-younger-obi-wan-kenobi, being top billed in the-later-two-films.
daisy-ridley plays rey and
adam-driver plays kylo-ren in the-sequel-films (2015—19).
with the-release of episode-ix: the rise of skywalker in 2019, daniels is credited with the-most-acting-appearances as the-same-character, having played c-3po in all-nine-films of the skywalker saga, as well as the anthology film rogue-one, the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series in 2008 and 2003, and a guest appearance in the-first-season of rebels.
daniels also appeared in solo, but as a-different-character named "tak", as well as a character named "dannl faytonni" in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, the latter being alongside c-3po.
^m denotes the-character was introduced within the-main-saga.
denotes the-character was introduced within the-anthology-series.
denotes the-character was introduced within an-animated-series or the-clone-wars-film.
^ls denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-animated-series of film before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
^b denotes the-character was introduced within a-novel.
^lb denotes the-character originated within a non-canonical star wars legends novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character was introduced within a-comic-book or graphic-novel.
^lc denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-comic-book or graphic-novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character introduced within the-current-category, but also has an-extended-plot-line within another-category.
example: ^+a would denote the-character was introduced within the-current-category but has an-extended-plot-line in the-anthology-series, alternatively ^+s would denote an-extended-plot-line in the-animated-series, and ^+as would denote extended-plot-lines on both-categories.)
in 2008, an-animated-film entitled star wars: the-clone-wars was released.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
despite the-decanonization, the-television-films do retain many-major-cast-members from the-original-trilogy reprising the-television-films roles; the-holiday-special featured most of the-cast from the-original-film, while the-ewok-prequel-films featured warwick-davis reprising his-role as wicket, who originated in return of the-jedi.
the-rise of skywalker from footage originally shot for star-wars:
the-force awakens, but cut from the-film.
g ewan-mcgregor's-voice can be heard saying the-newly-recorded-dialogue "these are your-final-steps, rey, rise and take these" while archive-recordings of alec-guinness saying "afraid" were cut to say "rey", both occurring when rey says "be with g-ewan-mcgregor's", and voices of past-jedi are heard.
star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith star wars episode iv:
the-empire strikes back star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi-star-wars episode vii:
the-force awakens
the-clone-wars is a-2008-computer-animated-epic-space-opera-film directed by dave-filoni (in the-clone-wars feature directorial-debut), produced by lucasfilm-ltd. and lucasfilm-animation, and distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
in star-wars: the-clone-wars, count-dooku and jabba the-hutt's-uncle ziro orchestrate a-plot to turn jabba against the-galactic-republic by framing the-jedi for the-kidnapping of his-son, which would in turn allow ziro to take over jabba's criminal empire after jabba is arrested.
while anakin skywalker and anakin skywalker newly-assigned apprentice, ahsoka-tano, attempt to deliver jabba's-son back to jabba's-son father, obi-wan-kenobi and padmé-amidala lead separate-investigations of dooku and ziro's-plot.
the-film marks the-first-appearances of fan-favorite-characters tano and captain-rex in the-franchise.
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day.
the-clone-wars was the-first-star-wars-film to not be distributed by 20th-century-fox, and the first to be completely animated.
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day received largely-negative-reviews, becoming the-worst-reviewed-theatrically-released-star-wars-film with critics panning the-writing, animation, tone, repetitive-action-scenes, dialogue and the-decision to release the-pilot-episodes as a-feature-length-film, while some-praise was directed at the-voice acting and score.
while the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day was a-commercial-success, grossing $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget,
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day is also the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day.
the-clone-wars served as the-backdoor-pilot to the-cartoon-network-television-series of the-same-name, which had a-far-more-favorable-reception than
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day.
the-events of the-film chronologically take place between the-clone-wars-season-1-episode "the-hidden-enemy" and the-season-3-episode "clone-cadets".
following the-battle, yoda arrives and informs the-jedi that crime lord-jabba the-hutt's-son rotta has been kidnapped.
unknown to the-jedi, the-plot has been engineered by dooku's-sith-master-darth-sidious, who hopes to frame the-jedi for rotta's-kidnapping in order to get jabba to ally with the-separatists and fuel anti-jedi-sentiment from the-hutts.
the-jedi the-jedi manage to escape the-trap along with r2-d2 and hijack a-derelict-transport with which they travel to tatooine.
the-hutt refuses to cooperate, apparently believing that the-hutt is the-jedi who are responsible for the-situation.
however, padmé soon discovers that ziro has actually conspired with dooku to have rotta killed, so that jabba would execute anakin and ahsoka in return and be taken into custody by the-jedi-council, which will allow ziro to seize power over the-hutt-clan.
the two deliver the-real-rotta safely to jabba, who nonetheless orders the-jedi to be executed for their-supposed-kidnapping-attempt.
star-wars was made to serve as both-a-stand-alone-story and a-lead-in to the-weekly-animated-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-story of the-kidnapped-hutt was inspired by the-sonny-chiba-samurai-film titled shogun's shadow.
lucasfilm-and-lucasfilm-animation used autodesk-software to animate both-the-film and the-series using the-maya-3d-modeling-program to create highly-detailed-worlds, characters and creatures.
at a-cartoon-network-hosted-discussion, lucas said lucas did not want the-clone-wars-film-or-television-series to look like such-movies as beowulf, because lucas wanted a-stylized-look rather than a realistic one.
lucas also felt it should not look like the-popular-pixar-movies such as the-incredibles, because lucas wanted the-film and characters to have it own unique-style.
lucas also decided to create the-animated-film and series from a-live-action-perspective, which winder said set it apart from other-cgi-films.
animators also reviewed designs from the-original-2003-clone-wars-series when creating the-animation-style for the-film and the-new-series.
star-wars was composed by kevin-kiner.
the-original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by sony-classical on august 12, 2008.
on august 15, mcdonald's held mcdonald's first ever happy meal promotion for a-star-wars-film and for four-weeks, 18-exclusive-toys came in specially-designed-happy-meal-boxes.
randy-stradley, vice-president of publishing for dark-horse, said the-sudden-decision to release the-clone-wars-film required the-clone-wars to temporarily delay plans for two-other-star-wars-comic-book-series, dark-times and rebellion.
also released was the-clone-wars: the-visual-guide, published by dk, and star-wars: the-clone-wars in the-uk, published by puffin and in the-u.s. by grosset & dunlap.
at the-american-international-toy-fair, lego announced a-product-line for the-film and the-tv-series, to be released in july 2008 in the-united-states and on august 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-lucasarts-video-game-developer adapted the-film into star-wars:
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance for the-nintendo-ds and star-wars: the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels for wii.
a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk said a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk expectations for jedi-alliance were low due to poor-clone-wars-movie-reviews, but a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk found the-game "a-varied-and-well-paced-experience."
the-clone-wars-mp3-player was released in august 2008.
the-clone-wars-open-wheel-car for the-indycar-series, ran august 24 on the-infineon-raceway in the-sonoma-mountains in california.
a-novelization of the-film by karen-traviss was released by del-rey-books on july 26, 2008.
in addition to narrating the-film by karen-traviss's-plot from various-points of view, the-film by karen-traviss includes some of anakin's-memories of anakin early-childhood as a-hutt-slave, as well as some of dooku's-recollections of battling the-mandalorians (previously explored in the-2002-comic-book jango-fett: open-seasons).
the-film's-two-disc-dvd and blu-ray-disc was released on november 11, 2008 in the-united-states and on december 8, 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-film was released as a-single-disc-dvd, two-disc-special-edition-dvd, and blu-ray-disc.
the-standard-definition-versions include the-film in widescreen-format with dolby-digital-5.1-surround-ex-sound, and with feature-length-audio-commentary.
the-film is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
the-film was panned by critics.
on rotten-tomatoes, the-film has an-approval-rating of 18% based on 170-reviews, with an-average-rating of 4.2/10.
the-site's-critical-consensus reads: "mechanical-animation and a-less-than-stellar-script make the-clone-wars a pale shadow of george-lucas'-once-great-franchise.
entertainment-weekly listed star-wars: the-clone-wars as one of the-five-worst-films of 2008 with critic-owen-gleiberman saying, it's hard to tell the-droids from the-jedi-drones in this-robotic-animated-dud, in which the-george-lucas-empire strikes back—at the-audience.
cool-news posted two-reviews of the-film during the-week before the-film release, but pulled them down due to an-embargo placed on those attending the-screening the-film writers attended.
the-retraction prompted some-readers to allege a-conspiracy by lucasfilm to keep negative-press out of circulation until the-release of the-film, but although the-review by site-creator-harry-knowles was negative, drew-mcweeny said that drew-mcweeny was positive and that no-such-conspiracy existed.
several-critics compared the-clone-wars to a-saturday-morning-cartoon and described a-saturday-morning-cartoon as little more than a-plug for the-upcoming-animated-series.
the-clone-wars is to star-wars what-karaoke is to pop music.
the-main-criticism toward the-film was the-animation.
many criticized the-film as cheap, wooden, non-engaging and out-of-date; some-reviewers drew negative-comparisons to 1960s
roger-ebert gave the-film 1.5-stars out of 4 and said "the-characters have hair that looks molded from play-doh, bodies that seem arthritic, and moving lips on half-frozen-faces—all signs that shortcuts were taken in the-animation-work."
jason-anderson, of the-globe and mail, wrote that although the-clone-wars is intended for younger-audiences, "parents may be perturbed by the-film's-relentless-violence."
the-clone-wars earned $68,282,845 worldwide, including $35,161,554 in north-american-domestic-box-office-grosses and $33,121,290 in international-grosses.
the-film earned $14,611,273 on 3,452-screens in
the-film-opening-day, august 15.
the-film was $8.5 million, frugal considering the-film was a-cgi-film and because the-film was meant to introduce the-animated-series.
fellman said, " the-film was targeted to a-specific-audience for specific-reasons.
" when the-clone-wars dropped to $5.6 million in the-clone-wars second week of release, contactmusic.com described contactmusic.com as "the-first-bona-fide-star-wars-flop.
the-film also earned $23,428,376 from dvd-sales in the-us.
the-film was nominated for a-golden-raspberry-award in the-category "worst-prequel, remake, rip-off or sequel", but lost to indiana-jones and the-kingdom of the-crystal-skull.
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at box-office-mojo-star-wars:
the-clone-wars on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
star-wars is a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas.
a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas began with a-theatrical-feature-film which was released on august 15, 2008, and debuted on cartoon-network two months later on october 3, 2008.
attack of the-clones and episode iii: revenge of the-sith.
the-clone-wars was a-massive-ratings-success, becoming one of cartoon-network's-highest-rated-shows during the-clone-wars initial run.
throughout the-clone-wars run, the-previous-series received mostly-positive-reception from critics, receiving praise for the-clone-wars writing, action, characters, visuals, voice-acting, music, scale and tone.
the-series has also garnered a massive fan following and was also nominated for many-industry-awards, including the-daytime-emmy-awards and the-annie-awards.
in early 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down".
the-series was revived for a-seventh-and-final-season of 12-new-episodes, which premiered on disney+
star-wars is set during the-prequel-trilogy-era, in the-period of three-years between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
star-wars focuses on the-eponymous-conflict between the-galactic-republic, which is supported by the-jedi-order, and the-confederacy of independent-systems, a-movement organized by the-sith-lord-count-dooku to unite numerous-planetary-systems seeking independence from the-republic against star-wars.
unbeknownst to the-galaxy, darth-sidious, dooku's-secret-master, is the-one pulling the-strings of both-sides, as part of his-master-plan to eliminate the-jedi and gain enough-power to create a-new-governing-state under his-rule.
the-series was initially conceived as an-anthology, with episodes sharing little-narrative-connections between the-series, but later-seasons feature story arcs that span several-episodes.
this-season focuses heavily on bounty-hunter-characters, with one-story-arc featuring darth-sidious hiring cad-bane to steal a-holocron from the-jedi-temple on coruscant that will help hunter locate force-sensitive-children, while another-deals with boba-fett beginning boba-fett bounty hunter career and, alongside a-group of more-experienced-mercenaries, seeking revenge against mace-windu for killing mace-windu father.
other-major-story-arcs focus on the-planet-mandalore, which took a-neutral-stance in the-clone-wars and whose pacifist leader, duchess-satine-kryze, is targeted by both-the-separatists and the-mandalorian-terrorist-faction death-watch; and the-jedi-leading-republic-forces in an-assault on the-main-separatist-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility on geonosis.
the-first-half of both-season three and four are diplomatic in nature, and focus on the-role of the-republic-senate in the-clone-wars, and how different-races and planets are affected by the-galaxy-wide-conflict, as well as the-republic's-efforts to help the-first-half of both-season three and four.
during season three, several-story-arcs focus on the-development of certain-characters, such as anakin, who is led to an-ancient-force-realm alongside obi-wan and ahsoka, and learns more about the-nature of the-force and his-role as the chosen one; ahsoka, who defies anakin's orders to join his-team in a-mission to break a-jedi-master out of a-separatist-prison, and must later lead her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans when her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans find her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans hunted by trandoshans; and ventress, who is betrayed by dooku, returns to her-nightsister-clan on dathomir, and tries to exact revenge on her through a-jedi-master new apprentice, savage-opress, who ultimately turns on both ventress and dooku to follow his-own-path.
other-story-arcs feature obi-wan faking obi-wan death and going undercover as a-bounty-hunter to thwart a-plot to capture chancellor-palpatine; ventress abandoning obi-wan sith ways and becoming a-bounty-hunter after the-separatists'-massacre of the-nightsisters; and savage finding savage-long-lost-brother, darth-maul, who seeks revenge against obi-wan for obi-wan
the-second-arc revolves around a-team of droids who, while undertaking a-mission to intercept an-encrypted-separatist-message, encounter an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando and must help an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando recover an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando memories to escape the-planet they have been stranded on.
the-fourth-arc deals with the-return of darth-maul, who joins forces with death-watch and other-criminal-syndicates to take over mandalore and exact revenge on obi-wan.
rush-clovis expose the-corruption in the-intergalactic-banking-clan, which causes tensions in rush-clovis and anakin's-relationship when rush-clovis learns about rush-clovis secret mission and intervines; jar-jar-binks and mace-windu rescuing the-captured-queen of bardotta from a-cult headed by the-nightsisters'-former-leader, mother-talzin; and yoda embarking on a-journey to learn more about the-nature of the-force after he is visited by the-spirit of the-late-qui-gon-jinn.
the-final-arc, which is set concurrently with revenge of the-sith, depicts the-siege of mandalore, a-battle that had been referenced in previous-star-wars-media.
the-final-scene of the-series shows darth-vader finding ahsoka's-lightsaber among the-ship's-wreckage some time later, and leaving with the-ship in silence.
the-series started with a-theatrically-released-animated-film; this-decision were made after the-production-team watched completed footage of several-early-episodes for the-planned-television-series, which were ultimately combined into a-single-feature-length-film.
for the-film, christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood reprised anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood roles as count-dooku, c-3po, mace-windu, and the-b1-battle-droids, respectively, from the-live-action-movies, but christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood would not return for the-television-series.
on december 5, 2011, a full-length feature cut of one of the-season-3-trilogies of episodes (the-one composed by "nightsisters,"-"monster," and "witches of the-mist") was released for download on itunes as an-uninterrupted-movie that was previously shown at selected-screenings in 2010.
the-series was cancelled in march 2013, after the-conclusion of the-series fifth-season, as a-result of the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm and the-decision to remove most-star-wars-expanded-universe works from canon.
despite this, the-clone-wars was one of the-few-pieces of star-wars-media to remain part of the-new-continuity established by disney, and a-sixth-season was released on march 7, 2014 on netflix, along with additional-media, such as comic-books and novels, based on unfinished-story-arcs that would have been included in the-season.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes in a-seventh-season to be released on disney+.
a-trailer for the-season was released on april 14, 2019 at star-wars-celebration-chicago.
on august 23, 2019, series-creator-dave-filoni announced at the-d23-expo that series-creator-dave-filoni will be the-final-season.
at april 2005's star-wars-celebration-iii, george-lucas stated that "we are working on a-3-d-continuation of the-pilot-series that was on the-cartoon-network; we probably won't start that-project for another-year. "
sansweet referred to the-pilot-series that was on the-cartoon-network as "the-next-generation of the-star-wars-saga, a-cutting-edge-30-minute,-3-d-computer-animation-series based on the-clone-wars that take place between episode ii ... and episode iii."
primary-production took place at the-lucasfilm-animation-facility in singapore.
" sansweet has said that "a-large-component of the-future of star-wars and lucasfilm is cgi-animation."
speaking at paleyfest on march 3, 2007, lucas revealed that the-series would be episodic, and as such would not focus on anakin-skywalker's-story; with episodes dedicated to clone troopers and other-characters.
lucas revealed further-information in a-fan-interview, including a-new-character named ahsoka tano, over 100-episodes and a-possible-appearance by boba-fett.
the-first-trailer for the-series was released on the-official-star-wars-website on may 8, 2007.
in an-interview in the-september-24,-2007-issue of tv-guide, lucas confirmed that 39-episodes of the-series had been completed.
on april 8, 2007, ain't it cool-news reported that musician-eric-rigler had recorded music for the-series.
snyder flew out to san-francisco, california to screen several-episodes, and told lucas the-only-place snyder wanted to see the-show was on cartoon-network.
the-"young-padawans"-arc from season 5 was intended to be aired separately from the-clone-wars as a-feature-length-pilot for a-spin-off-series that never materialized.
seasons 6, 7, and 8, were in some-form of production at the-time of the-show's-cancellation in march 2013, shortly after lucasfilm was purchased by disney.
an-online-comic released alongside the-series depicts story-snippets between episodes.
the-clone-wars premiered on october 3, 2008 at 9-p.m. on cartoon-network.
the-show began airing on their-adult-swim-block on march 14, 2009, making the-series the first cartoon network series to simultaneously air on both-cartoon-network and adult-swim.
the-series the-first-cartoon-network-series also aired from january 15 to march 26, 2009 on tnt, making the-series the-first-cartoon-network-series the-first-form of animation to air on that-channel in over-a-decade.
the-show entered an-off-network-syndication in 2012, and in the-fall of that-year trifecta-entertainment & media put the-show into barter-syndication.
the-show has been taken off the-air in off-network syndication since fall 2013 due to low-costs and was not renewed for season 2 in the 2013-2014 tv season due to disney's-completed-acquisitions of lucasfilm-ltd in december 2012.
on march 11, 2013, it was announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down" to focus on the-star-wars sequel trilogy and a new series, star-wars-rebels.
one of the-most-well-known-edits was the-removal of the-character ventress kissing a-clone after the-character had stabbed him with the-character lightsaber.
the-show was removed from netflix on april 7, 2019.
for the revival and final-season, the-remaining-episodes of the-series are exclusively available on disney+.
the-clone-wars – the-lost-missions.
apart from the season-by-season videodisc sets, there were also three-special-dvd-releases consisting of four-episodes from a-particular-season that reflected a-certain-story-arc or theme: a-galaxy divided, an-early-dvd-release of the-series which included the-four-season-1-episodes ("ambush", "shadow of malevolence", "destroy malevolence", "downfall of a-droid")
although it began with mixed-to-positive-reviews, the-series achieved critical-acclaim over time.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "with an-agreeably-entertaining-first-season, star-wars: the-clone-wars opens a-fun,-kid-friendly-chapter of the-franchise's-sprawling-mythology. "
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "sophisticated-storytelling-and-quality-animation make the-sixth-season of star-wars
: the-clone-wars a fitting end to the-series. "
on august 31, 2008, a-sneak-peek of the-new-series was shown on cartoon-network.
star-wars became the-most-watched-series-premiere in cartoon-network-history.
the-series averaged 3-million-total-viewers in the-series debut, according to nielsen-media-research.
tech-times said that, "while the-star-wars-prequel-films fail to make audiences care about characters like anakin-skywalker, the-clone-wars succeeds.
during may 2020, following the-release of the-seventh-season on disney+, the-clone-wars became the-most-streamed-digital-original-show in the-united-states.
in september 2014, starwars.com released details of three-story-arcs from the-unfinished-episodes.
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul following the-events from the-season-5-episode "the-lawless", detailing his-escape from sidious; darth-maul regains control of the-criminal-shadow-collective, and battles dooku, grievous, and sidious.
the-story follows vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released on the-official-star-wars-website.
the-arc took place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-unfinished-animatics for the-bad-batch, a-four-episode-arc, were screened at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in anaheim, california on april 17, 2015.
a-four-part-story-arc focusing on a-ragtag-unit of clone-commandos of the-same-name was subsequently released on starwars.com for free shortly after on april 29, 2015.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance, an-action-adventure-game released on november 11, 2008 for nintendo-ds.
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance, an-action-adventure-game released on november 11, 2008 for nintendo-dsnintendo-ds.
clone-wars-adventures, an-online-pc-game launched on september 15, 2010 online by sony-online-entertainment and shut down on march 31, 2014.
the-clone-wars, released in march 2011 by tt-games for playstation 3, playstation portable, xbox 360, wii, nintendo ds, pc, mac, and nintendo 3ds, which further stylizes the-characters as part of the-lego-star-wars-theme and is mostly based on the-first-two-seasons.
disney-infinity 3.0, released in september 2015 by disney-interactive for playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, microsoft-windows, ios and android, which stylizes select-major-characters from the-show as action-figures that become playable only via a toys-to-life nfc system.
each-copy of the-game comes with the-playset, "twilight of the-republic", which is an-alternate-storyline set during the-clone-wars-era, along with two-starting-characters, anakin and ahsoka.
other-characters from the-show also appear, although most of other-characters from the-show are not playable or are fought as bosses.
characters and/or locations from the-show have also appeared in the-following-star-wars-games listed below:
several-levels in the-main-campaign also take place on the-planet-felucia, a-major-clone-wars-hotspot featured in some-episodes.
star-wars: galaxy of heroes, a-turn-based-rpg also released on ios and android by electronic-arts, where some-levels take place on planets depicted in the-show (such as dathomir) and a-number of collectible,-playable-characters are from the-show (such as dathomir).
force-arena, an-online-moba-game released on ios and android by netmarble, where an-august-2017-update allowed players to recruit characters, vehicles and battle-units from the-series, as well as battle on planets like felucia.
star-wars-battlefront-ii, a-video-game available on microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox-one, in which players can battle on or directly above planets like ryloth and kamino, where some-battles in the-series were fought.
the-clone-wars at starwars.com
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at the-big-cartoon-database-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-‹the
the-clone-wars at tv.com
the-first-live-action-series in the-franchise, the-mandalorian, premiered in november 2019, and spawned three-spin-offs, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic and ahsoka.
nelvana, the-animation-studio that produced the-animated-segment of the-holiday-special, was hired to create two-animated-series which aired together on abc: droids (1985–1986) follows the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2, and its-sister series-ewoks (1985–1987) features wicket and other-members of the-titular-species from return of the-jedi, both set before the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ===
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) was introduced through a-2008-animated-film of the-same-name.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series is set between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith of the-prequel-trilogy.
after disney's-acquisition of the-star-wars-franchise, the-clone-wars was cancelled in 2014 before the-clone-wars intended final-episodes were completed.
the-chronological-storyline-order was released after the-series had initially finished airing.
the-film and series were included in the-canon established in 2014.
the-film and series was later revived for an-additional-final-season that premiered on february 21, 2020, on the-streaming-service disney+.
due to the-film rogue-one being produced at the-same-time, the-film and the-series acknowledged each other.
the-series also included an-in-canon-version of grand-admiral-thrawn from the-legends
sequel trilogy-characters such as captain-phasma, general-hux, and kylo-ren appear.
the-second-and-final-season premiered on october 6, 2019.
set after the-events of the-clone-wars, the-bad-batch follows the-titular-squadron making the-bad-batch way through the-galaxy as mercenaries in the-early-days of the-empire.
the-series was announced in july 2020, to debut on disney+
announced on december 10, 2020, star-wars: visions is an-anime-anthology-series of ten-short-films by different-creators set in the star-wars universe.
cartoon-network produced and aired the-micro-series-clone-wars from 2003 to weeks before the-2005-release of revenge of the-sith, as the-series featured events set between those-films.
the-plot in the-series was intended as prequel to then-upcoming-feature-movie-episode-iii: revenge of the-sith and directly leads to the-starting-point in the-movie.
the-plot in the-series won the-primetime-emmy-awards for outstanding-animated-program in 2004 and 2005.
using stylized-animation, the-series of shorts reimagine key-scenes from the-saga, initially leading up the-release of episode-ix.
star-wars roll out debuted on the star-wars kids youtube channel and website in august 2019.
io9 calls the-design of the-series "adorable".
the-mandalorian (2019–present) ===
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in august 2018, it was reported that the-series would cost about "$100 million for 10-episodes".
the-series premiered on november 12, 2019, with the-launch of disney+.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
it will be released in december 2021.
the-series will follow rebel-spy-cassian-andor, five years before the-events of rogue one, during the-formative-years of the-rebellion.
in november 2018, a-prequel-series to the-2016-film rogue one centered on rebel-spy-cassian-andor was confirmed to be in development, and described as a-"rousing-spy-thriller".
in april 2019, alan-tudyk was confirmed to be reprising alan-tudyk role of k-2so.
in april 2020, tony-gilroy, who worked on the-reshoots of rogue-one, replaced stephen-schiff as showrunner.
it was also revealed in april 2020 that stellan-skarsgård, kyle-soller,
in september 2020, it was announced that gilroy would step down from gilroy directing duties in light of the-covid-19-pandemic and would be replaced by toby-haynes, who is set to direct the-first-three-episodes.
in august 2019, it was reported that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise ewan-mcgregor role from the-prequel-trilogy.
during the-2019-d23-expo, lucasfilm officially announced that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise his-role from the-prequel trilogyewan-mcgregor ewan-mcgregor .
it will take place eight years after revenge of the-sith and prior to the-events of a-new-hope, thus exploring the-time during kenobi's-exile on tatooine.
in september 2019, deborah-chow and hossein-amini were announced as the-series'-director and writer, respectively, who will also serve as executive-producers alongside mcgregor.
in october 2019, mcgregor said the-series' would comprise six-episodes.
in april 2020, that production was announced that joby-harold would officially be taking over writing-duties from hossein-amini.
in august 2020, mcgregor told thewrap that it would be a-limited-series.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in april 2020, variety reported that a-female-centric-live-action-star-wars-series is in development for disney+
in early-november, russian-doll-co-creator-leslye-headland expounded that the-series would be set "in a-pocket of the-universe and a-pocket of the-timeline that we don't know much about," elaborating that she was more engaged creatively with the-geography of the-universe than its-existing-visuals.
on november 5, deadline reported that the-series was expected to be an-"action-thriller with martial-arts-elements".
on disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that the-series would take place during the-late-high-republic-era.
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
in december 2020, lando was announced as a-disney+-limited-series, focusing on the-titular-character, with a-story by justin-simien.
in december 2020, rangers of the-new-republic was announced.
first announced in december 2019, the-series debuted on the-star-wars-kids-website and youtube-channel on june 10, 2020.
the-series features young-contestants competing as jedi-padawans in a-series of obstacle-courses and knowledge-tests in the-attempt to gain the-rank of jedi-knight.
the-show is hosted by ahmed-best, who plays the-character of kelleran-beq, the-jedi-master-mentor of the-contestants who is joined by his-droid-companions, ad-3
sam-witwer provides the-voice of an-unknown-character of the-dark-side of the-force during the-final-challenge of each-episode.
in 2007, lucas described the-project as "one-show that will split into four-shows, focusing on different-characters. "
the-series was described as "gritty and dark" and was expected to feature characters such as han-solo, chewbacca, lando-calrissian, boba-fett, c-3po, and emperor-palpatine.
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
producer-rick-mccallum revealed the-working-title, star-wars: underworld, in 2012, and that it would focus on criminal-and-political-power-struggles in the-"period when the-empire is trying to take things over. "
ronald-d.-moore was one of the-writers, and extensive-artwork including character, costume, and set designs were developed at skywalker-ranch under the-close-supervision of lucas and mccallum.
the-project was still being considered after lucasfilm was sold to disney, including by abc, with stories being reviewed as of december 2015.
the-story of han winning the-millennium-falcon from lando was planned to be featured and later developed as solo:
in early 2020, stargate-studios shared test-footage made to promote the-series to networks, as well as a-google-doc listing production-details for the-series.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
lego-star-wars-§-films and videos-list of star-wars cast members-list of star-wars characters
list of star-wars-films ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), forming what is collectively referred to as the-original-trilogy.
years later, a-prequel-trilogy was released, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
the-last-jedi (2017), and concluded with episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
in 1984 and 1985, two-live-action-films featuring the-ewoks were televised in the-united-states and released theatrically in europe.
the-first-film released, star-wars (1977), is the-fourth-film chronologically and was later subtitled episode-iv – a-new-hope.
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) and concludes with episode ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-story follows each-generation of the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family and the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family struggle against the-evil-sith-lord-palpatine (darth-sidious).
the-prequel-trilogy follows his-children, luke and leia, as his-children, luke and leia join the-rebel-alliance and battle-vader, palpatine and his-galactic-empire.
the-sequel-trilogy features ben-solo-a.k.a-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin—who seeks to rule the-galaxy with rey, the-granddaughter of palpatine and the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke and leia.
as lucas was outlining a-trilogy of trilogies, lucas also imagined making additional-movies unrelated to the-skywalker-saga.
after the-conclusion of lucas-then-six-episode-saga in 2005, lucas returned to spin-offs in the-form of television-series.
an-animated-film, the-clone-wars (2008), was released as a-pilot to a-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-first-entry, rogue one: a-star-wars-story (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans directly before episode-iv.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
preceding the-airing of the-animated-tv-series in late 2008, the-theatrical-feature star-wars: the-clone-wars was compiled from episodes "almost [as] an-afterthought. "
it reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith; the-series explains padawan-ahsoka-tano's-absence from the-latter-film.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-character had become a fan favorite.
the-film and series exist in the-same-level of canon as the-episodic-and-anthology-films.
before selling lucasfilm to disney in 2012, and parallel to his-development of a-sequel-trilogy, george-lucas and original-trilogy-co-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan started development on a-standalone-film about a-young-han-solo.
its-laser was developed by scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) after the-empire forcibly abducted scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen), separating scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) from scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) daughter-jyn.
in may 2014, lucasfilm announced gareth-edwards as the-director of an-anthology-film, with gary-whitta writing the-first-draft for a-release on december 16, 2016.
the-film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated-star-wars-tv-series, namely-the-clone-wars'-saw-gerrera, portrayed by forest-whitaker in the-film.
the-film received generally-positive-reviews, with the-film performances, action-sequences, soundtrack, visual-effects and darker-tone being praised.
the-film grossed over us$500 million worldwide within a-week of the-film release.
after an-escape-attempt from his-imperial-occupied-home-planet of corellia goes wrong, a-young-han vows to return to rescue a-young-han girlfriend qi'ra.
before selling lucasfilm to disney, george-lucas had hired star-wars-original-trilogy-veteran-lawrence-kasdan to write a-film about a-young-han-solo.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
lucasfilm originally hired phil-lord and christopher-miller to direct, but phil-lord and christopher-miller were fired during principal-photography, and replaced by ron-howard.
a-twist-ending acknowledges one of the-major-story-arcs of the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-series, while leaving the-story open ended for sequels.
during disney-investor-day 2020, rogue-squadron (2023) ==== was announced that patty-jenkins would direct a-film titled rogue-squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023.
a-film titled rogue squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023 will be the-first-film in the-franchise directed by a-woman, and according to starwars.com, "will introduce a-new-generation of starfighter-pilots as they earn they wings and risk
according to patty-jenkins, a-film titled rogue squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023 will be "something original with great-influence from the-games and the-books.
in mid-2018, lucasfilm confirmed that multiple-anthology-films were in development, with multiple-anthology-films release following a-hiatus after 2019's-the-rise of skywalker.
the-ewoks from return of the-jedi were featured in two-spin-off-television-films, the-ewok-adventure and ewoks:
both are set between the-events of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
although based on story-ideas from lucas, do not bear star-wars in titles, and were considered to exist in a-lower-level of canon than the-episodic-films.
the-battle for endor would be the-last-live-action-star-wars-television-project produced by lucasfilm until 2019's-the-mandalorian.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor-ship, the-castaway-family is split, when a-giant-creature known as the-gorax kidnaps the-parents.
among other-stylistic-choices making the-film unique from the-star-wars-episodes is the-inclusion of a-narrator.
in december 2020, a-droid-story, an-animated-adventure-film for disney+ was announced.
the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
the-film was additionally nominated for outstanding-children's-program but lost in this-category to an-episode of american-playhouse.
the-film additionally received two-nominations for outstanding-children's-program and outstanding sound mixing for a-miniseries or a-special.
in august 2017, it was rumored that films focused on jabba the-hutt, and jedi-masters-obi-wan and yoda were being considered or were in development.
at d23-expo in august 2019, it was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
felicity-jones, who played jyn-erso in rogue-one, has the-option of another-star-wars-film in her-contract; notwithstanding her-character's-fate in rogue-one, it has been speculated that her could return in other-anthology-films.
lucasfilm swiftly denied the-rumors as "inaccurate", confirming that multiple-unannounced-films were in development.
game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss were to write and produce a-trilogy of star-wars-films scheduled to be released in december 2022, 2024, and 2026, which were first announced to be in development in february 2018.
however, citing game of thrones-creators david-benioff and d.-b.-weiss commitment to a-netflix-deal, the-duo stepped away from the-project in october 2019.
list of star-wars cast members
list of star wars characters list of star-wars-television-series ===
attack of the-clones (2002), episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005),
during the-clone-wars, they served under the-command of the-jedi-order, but ultimately turned on they and killed they, as a-result of palpatine issuing order 66, which branded the-jedi as traitors and ordered they deaths.
the-nature of order 66 is explored in more-detail in the-clone-wars-animated-series, which reveals that palpatine had secretly arranged for the-clone-army's-creation almost a decade before the-clone-wars, and ordered that all-clones be outfitted with inhibitor-chips, which would alter all-clones mentality and force all-clones to carry out order 66 unquestionably.
during development of the empire strikes back, lucas initially conceived a-planet of clones, which is why the-clone-wars was mentioned for the-first-time in the-original-star-wars (1977)-film.
the-armored-troopers in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith are computer-generated-images voiced by temuera-morrison, who played jango.
in writing the empire strikes back, leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war, but this-concept was not featured in the-film.
lucas intended for the-prequel-trilogy to depict the-evolution of the-galaxy's-fighting-forces, and the-clone-troopers were the-step after flawed-battle-droids.
initial-concept-models implied that the-first-generation-armor was thicker and bulkier than stormtrooper-armor, and this-characteristic was retained by the-art-department for revenge of the-sith.
lucas expressed a-desire for individualized-trooper-armor from the-beginning of art-development for revenge of the-sith.
the clone trooper designs "progressed" closer toward the-stormtrooper-designs, and the-film included variant-designs similar to the-sandtrooper, scout-trooper, and snowtrooper-armor of the-original-trilogy.
in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, all-clone-troopers are computer-generated-images and are voiced by temuera-morrison, who played the-clone-template jango-fett.
commander-cody, seen in armor without his-helmet in revenge of the-sith, was played by morrison.
like morrison, taylor also played armored-and-unhelmeted-clones in revenge of the-sith, wearing a-blue-bodysuit that isolated his-head.
the-clone-troopers are voiced by dee-bradley-baker in the-2008-animated-film the-clone-wars and the-clone-wars related animated-television-series of the-same-name.
the-army is deployed to geonosis under the-command of the-jedi to rescue obi-wan, anakin-skywalker, and padmé-amidala from execution by the-separatists.
in revenge of the-sith (2005), set three years later, the-clone-army continues to fight in the-clone-wars against the-separatist-battle-droid-army.
the-clone-troopers kill the-clone-troopers the-jedi-commanders, although a few manage to escape, while the-501st-legion, led by the-newly-christened-darth-vader, storms the-jedi-temple, burning the-jedi-temple and killing the-jedi inside, which effectively ends the-jedi order.
following vader's-assassination of the-remaining-separatist-leaders, palpatine transforms the-republic into the-galactic-empire and the-clone-army becomes the-basis of the-clone-army.
clone-troopers are referenced in the force awakens (2015) when kylo-ren chides general-hux for the-betrayal of rogue-stormtrooper-fn-2187 and suggests that supreme-leader-snoke should consider a-clone-army.
the-clone-wars ====
ultimately, jedi-jedi remained unaware of this as fives was executed by a-shock-trooper-clone ordered by palpatine to conceal the-existence of the-contingency-order.
it is also revealed that in the-years after the-end of the-clone-wars, the-empire gradually replaced the-aging-clones with the-less-effective-but-more-numerous-stormtroopers.
in the-novels lords of the-sith by paul-s.-kemp, and tarkin by james-luceno, several-clone-troopers are still in active-service during the-early-years of the-empire's-reign, such as among stormtroopers serving darth-vader, and even among the-emperor's-elite-imperial-guard.
they first appear in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, where they search for yoda's-body in the-senate-building after commander-fox-duel with darth-sidious and later help darth-sidious recover darth-vader's-body on mustafar.
in season seven, a-skirmish broke out onboard former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano's-venator-class-star-destroyer during the-final-days of the-clone-wars when clone-troopers of the-332nd-company and coruscant-guard received order 66 from supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine.
additional-sources state that fox continued fox duty on coruscant, until an-error on fox part led darth-vader to execute fox by force snapping fox neck.
thire later accompanied palpatine to mustafar to recover the-critically-wounded-darth-vader.
first appears unnamed in revenge of the-sith under the-leadership of commander-appo, and they assault the-jedi-temple on coruscant under order 66.
legion include: 332nd-company, which was active during the-clone-wars after former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano left the-jedi-order.
she leads them at the-siege of mandalore, which takes place at the-same-time as the-beginning of revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which he and other-members of the-501st carry out order 66 and follow anakin, now-darth-vader, in attacking the-jedi-temple on coruscant.
in the-seventh-season of the-series (which overlaps with revenge of the-sith), captain-rex ==== is promoted to commander and leads part of the-501st-legion, called the-332nd-legion (ahsoka-troopers) in the-siege of mandalore alongside ahsoka.
rex later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
jedi-master-shaak-ti brings jedi-master-shaak-ti to inform palpatine about the-chips, where palpatine, being the-true-mastermind behind the-conspiracy, reveals the-chips’ true purpose to fives.
later, after his-rescue from separatist-capture, his is visibly a-cyborg, with various-apparatus protruding from his-head and a-droid-plug in place of his-right-hand; post-rescue, his takes to wearing what appears to be a-stripped-down-variant on standard-phase-ii-armor.
the-ship crashed into a-planet during a randomized hyperspace jump to escape a-republic-attack and protect "dooku's-prize".
he served in the-umbara-campaign and was key to the-capture of treasonous-jedi-general-pong-krell, supporting and siding with he friend fives even after fives had been condemned to death by krell and stunning the-jedi after a-fierce-battle with mutinous-501st-clones led by rex.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith during the-battle of utapau, aiding obi-wan against general-grievous on utapau.
he later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith aiding jedi-general-yoda on kashyyyk.
he armor bears green-markings, and he appears in green-camouflage-armor in revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which he and he men carry out order 66 and shoot aayla in the-back, killing aayla.
jedi-general-plo-koon later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
when rex and gregor are sought by the-rebel-protagonists, wolffe is suspicious of rex and gregor motives and contacts the-empire to protect himself, rex, and gregor.
he praised the-decision of the-force awakens to explicitly move away from clone-troopers as bringing "much-needed-moral-complexity" to the-film's-conflict.
clone-troopers in the-starwars.com-databank-clone-trooper on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix –
produced by lucasfilm-and-abrams'-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-third-installment of the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
the-rise of skywalker follows rey, finn, and poe-dameron as they lead the-resistance's-final-stand against supreme-leader-kylo-ren and the-first-order, who are aided by the-return of the-deceased-galactic-emperor,-palpatine.
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
principal-photography began in august 2018 at pinewood-studios in england and wrapped in february 2019, with post-production completed in november 2019.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
the-film grossed over $1.074 billion worldwide, becoming the-seventh-highest-grossing-film of 2019; although the-film was the-lowest-grossing-installment of the-trilogy, the-film turned an-estimated-net-profit of $300 million.
the-film received three-nominations at the-92nd-academy-awards (best-original-score, best-visual-effects, and best-sound-editing) as well as three at the-73rd-british-academy-film-awards (also-best-special-visual-effects, best-original-music, and best-sound).
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
there, he finds palpatine, who reveals that he created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and lure kylo to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order—a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—and tells kylo to find and kill rey, who is continuing her-jedi-training under resistance-leader-leia-organa.
finn and poe-dameron deliver intelligence from a-spy that palpatine is on exegol; rey has learned from luke-skywalker's-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead them there.
kylo initiates a-force-bond with rey to discover her-location; kylo travels to pasaana with kylo warrior subordinates, the-knights of ren.
with the-help of lando-calrissian, rey and her-friends find the-clue—a-dagger inscribed with sith-text, which c-3po's-programming forbids him from interpreting—and the-remains of a-jedi-hunter named ochi and him ship.
rey senses kylo nearby and faces rey.
the-first-order captures the-falcon, chewbacca, and the-dagger; attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning.
rey senses chewbacca is alive, and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission to kylo's-star-destroyer.
rey recovers the-dagger and has visions of ochi killing rey parents with the-dagger.
kylo informs kylo that kylo is palpatine's-granddaughter; the-sith-lord had ordered ochi to recover rey as a-child, but kylo hid kylo on jakku to protect kylo.
rey retrieves the-wayfinder from the-remains of the-second-death-star, but she is met by kylo, who destroys the-wayfinder and duels she.
in a-dying-act, she calls to kylo through the-force, distracting kylo as rey impales kylo.
sensing she's-death, rey heals kylo and takes rey ship to exile she on ahch-to.
there, luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives she leia's-lightsaber.
rey leaves for exegol in luke's-x-wing-fighter, using the-wayfinder from kylo's-ship.
, palpatine sends one of palpatine superlaser-equipped star destroyers to destroy kijimi as a-show of force.
rey transmits her-coordinates to r2-d2, allowing the-resistance—now led by poe and finn—to follow her to exegol.
there, she confronts palpatine; palpatine demands that she kill palpatine for palpatine spirit to pass into she.
lando brings reinforcements from across the-galaxy to join the-battle.
ben overpowers the-knights of ren and joins rey, but palpatine drains the-knights of ren power to rejuvenate palpatine.
palpatine incapacitates ben and attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who lend her their-strength.
palpatine attacks palpatine with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine before dying palpatine.
ben uses the-force to revive palpatine at the-cost of ben own life; they share a-kiss before ben dies.
the-resistance defeats palpatine's-armada, while people across the-galaxy rise up against the-first-order.
the-resistance returns to the-resistance base to celebrate.
after the-celebration, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries rey and leia's-lightsabers.
a-passerby asks a-passerby name; as the-spirits of luke and leia watch, a-passerby replies, "rey-skywalker."
he became one with the-force in the-last-jedi.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-former-scavenger from jakku, member of the-resistance, and the-next-jedicailey-fleming and josefine-irrera-jackson as young rey john boyega as finn, a-member of the-resistance and a-former-stormtrooper-(fn-2187) who defected from the-first-order
oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa-naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance domhnall gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire
lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi-joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
jodie-comer and billy-howle briefly appear as rey's-parents, while tom-wilton and screenwriter chris-terrio briefly appear as the-performer and voice for aftab-ackbar, the-son of admiral-ackbar, respectively; and mike-quinn and kipsang-rotich return as the-performer and voice of nien-nunb, respectively.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was announced as the-director of the-film; colin-trevorrow was to write the-script with frequent-collaborator-derek-connolly.
carrie-fisher died in december 2016.
”in august 2017, it was announced that jack-thorne would rewrite the-script.
in september 2017, lucasfilm stated that trevorrow had left the-production following creative-differences, resulting trevorrow working relationship with kathleen-kennedy to become unmanageable after failing to deliver a-satisfactory-script, despite writing several-drafts.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
abrams co-wrote the-new-script with chris-terrio, though trevorrow and connolly retain story-credits.
the-story was rewritten to some-extent before filming was completed.
the-film was produced by abrams'-company-bad-robot-productions, kathleen-kennedy, and michelle-rejwan.
according to terrio, the-film's-script had to include certain-narrative-beats provided by kennedy and rejwan, including the-redemption of the-character kylo-ren.
carrie-fisher, who played leia-organa, died on december 27, 2016.
in january 2017, lucasfilm stated that there were no-plans to digitally generate fisher's-performance as lucasfilm had for rogue one (2016).
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
since the-event was held after principal-photography wrapped, abrams was thrilled that news of ian-mcdiarmid on the-set never leaked.
kathleen-kennedy said they decided to reveal palpatine's-return ahead of the-film's-release because of the-characters playing a-larger-role in the-story, having they differentiated from baby-yoda, the-character from the-mandalorian.
principal-photography began on august 1, 2018, at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
filming also took place in wadi-rum, jordan.
oscar-isaac stated that abrams was allowing more-improvised-acting than in the-previous-two-films.
due to the-tight-schedule, some-editing took place on set.
footage from the-film was shown at the-walt-disney-company's-annual-shareholders-meeting on march 7, 2019.
two-weeks of reshoots took place at pinewood involving hamill, ridley, and isaac in july 2019.
another-round of reshoots took place between late-september and october.
roger-guyett finished post-production on november 25, 2019.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
in august 2019, it was revealed that williams had written about 35 of an-expected-135-minutes of music for the-film, which according to williams brother don, would incorporate all of the-major-themes of the-skywalker-saga.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 20, 2019.
despite staying silent about many-details of the-film, abrams expressed abrams hopes that fans and general-audiences would be "satisfied".
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
on august 24, a-new-poster and "sizzle-reel" was released at d23; the latter was released to the public two days later.
the-rise of skywalker" includes the-novel-resistance-reborn, set between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker, and various-other-titles.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-official-novelization of the-rise of skywalker is by rae-carson:
the novel details palpatine's-return in more-depth : palpatine transferred palpatine consciousness into a-clone-body following palpatine death in return of the-jedi, and palpatine "son", rey's-father, was a-failed-clone of palpatine.
the-junior-novel and corresponding-audiobook are by michael-kogge and were released on april 21, 2020.
additionally, a-five-issue-marvel-comics-adaptation written by jody-houser and illustrated by will-sliney was originally planned to debut in mid-2020, but this was later canceled, making the-film the first in the-franchise not to receive a-comic-adaptation.
in december 2019, the video game star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017)
on december 14, fortnite's-publisher-epic-games released a-preview of the-film on an in-game theater screen as a-live-event.
at the-end of the-event, a-message from palpatine (the-one mentioned in the-film's-opening-crawl) was heard.
the-film was originally planned to be released in the-united-states on may 24, 2019, before being pushed back to december 20.
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-tcl-chinese-theatre in los-angeles on december 16.
unlike most-studio-films, disney reportedly did not hold test-screenings for the-rise of skywalker, instead only showing the-film to abrams'-friends and family, as well as a-terminally-ill-fan.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-4k-version of the-film was released on disney+
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $300 million when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale on october 21, 2019, and the-film sold more-tickets in pre-sale-tickets first hour of availability on atom-tickets than the-previous-record-holder for ticket-sales, avengers: endgame (2019).
endgame (2019) became atom-tickets'-second-best-first-day-seller of all-time behind endgame, selling more-than-twice-the-number of tickets as the-last-jedi sold in that-same-timeframe, while fandango reported fandango outsold all-previous-star-wars-films.
box-office-tracking had the-rise of skywalker grossing around $200 million in box-office-tracking opening weekend, though some-firms predicted a-debut closer to $175 million.
the-film made $90 million on christmas-day, including $40 million from thursday-night-previews.
the-film went on to debut to $177.3 million, and the-film was also noted that saturday (which saw a-47%-drop from friday's gross) was the-busiest-shopping-day of the-year, likely affecting ticket-sales.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-film went on to have a-five-day-total of $138.8 million, including $76 million for the-weekend.
in the-film third-weekend, the-film made $34.5 million, remaining in first, before being dethroned in
the-film fourth weekend by newcomer 1917 (2019).worldwide-the-film was projected to gross around $450 million in
the-film made $59.1 million from the-film first day of international-release in 46-countries.
in china, the-film made $1.6 million (rmb11.6 million) through the-film first day.
the-film went on to open to $198 million from overseas-countries and $373.5 million worldwide, coming in below projections and 47% lower than the-last-jedi's-total.
the-website's-critical-consensus reads, "the-rise of skywalker suffers from a-frustrating-lack of imagination, but concludes this-beloved-saga with fan-focused-devotion. "
as of january 2020, the-film is the-lowest-rated-live-action-film of the-star-wars-series.
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 61-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 53 out of 100, the-rise of skywalker received "mixed-or-average-reviews".
richard-roeper, reviewing for the-chicago-sun-times, gave the-film three-stars out of four, writing that the-film "rarely comes close to touching-greatness, but the-film's a-solid,-visually-dazzling-and-warmhearted-victory [for] quality-filmmaking."
the-a.v.-club's-a.-a.-dowd gave the-film a-c+, stating that the-film "is so freighted with obligation that the-film almost groans under the-weight, flashing a-weak-smile as it vaguely approximates the-appearance of a-zippy-good-time."
michael-phillips for chicago-tribune wrote that the-film "does the-job.
mick-lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
owen-gleiberman of variety called the-film "the most elegant, emotionally rounded, and gratifying star-wars-adventure since the-glory-days of star-wars (1977) and the empire strikes back (1980) [...]
the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film "'s acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
the-reduced-role was interpreted by some-critics as a-concession to fans who disliked her-character; tran had been a-target of online-harassment following the-release of the-last-jedi.
relishmix, which tracks social-media-posts and online-presence, "noticed a-divided-reaction to skywalker online, though it leaned slightly positive".
the-rise of skywalker at starwars.com-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at imdb
the-rise of skywalker at allmovie
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at disney-a to
z this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only those which are considered part of the-official-star-wars-canon, as of the-changes made by lucasfilm in april 2014.
following its-acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-novels, comics, video-games and other-works produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars as star-wars legends and declared them non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise.
as such, z-this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only-information from the-skywalker-saga-films, the-2008-animated-tv-series star-wars: the-clone-wars, and works published after april 2014.
to see those or characters who do not exist at all in the-current-star-wars-canon, see the-list of star-wars-legends-characters and list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters.
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes their-vulnerability and weakness.
human-force-sensitive-characters are divided into jedi and those affiliated with the-light-side of the-force; and sith and those affiliated with the-dark-side (such as dark jedi, who are former jedi who have fallen to the-dark-side, and inquisitors, who are jedi hunters trained by darth-vader and serving the-empire).
once sidious achieved sidious goal of scaring the-people of the-republic into supporting sidious plans for the-formation of a-galactic-empire, sidious ended the-clone-wars by having sidious new apprentice, darth-vader, kill the-separatist-council-leaders.
rogue one is a-squad of rebel-soldiers formed in the-film of the-same-name that embarked on a-suicide-mission to steal the-death-star's-schematics.
the-empire was eventually defeated by the-rebel-alliance and collapsed, but some-remnants continued to exist for 30-years and reunited to form the-first-order.
the-resistance is a-military-organization founded and led by leia-organa, and the-successor of the-rebel-alliance.
the-resistance fought against the-first-order to defend the-new-republic and maintain peace in the-galaxy, 30 years after the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war.
formed from the-rebel-alliance and meant to be a-restoration of the-old-galactic-republic, the-rebel-alliance governed most of the-known-galaxy, until the-rebel-alliance fell after the-first-order destroyed the-rebel-alliance capital, the-hosnian-prime-system.
the-first-order is an-autocratic-military-dictatorship and the-successor of the-galactic-empire, formed from
the-first-order-main-goal is to overthrow the-new-republic and destroy the-resistance and luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi.
the-first-order is the-central-antagonistic-faction of the-sequel-trilogy.
ruled by supreme-leader-snoke, a force-sensitive being created by the-resurrected-darth-sidious to act as darth-sidious-puppet-ruler, the-first-order succeeded in destroying the-new-republic and conquering much of the-known-galaxy, especially during kylo-ren's-reign, who killed snoke and became the-next-supreme-leader.
near the-end of its-one-year-long-war with the-resistance, its allied its with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-cult of sith-loyalists led by sidious on exegol, though both were ultimately defeated by the-remains of the-resistance and the-civilians of the-galaxy, who finally gathered the-courage to rise against both-oppressors.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
humans who are native to the-planet of naboo.
humans who are native to the-planet of tatooine.
humans who are native to the-planet of sorgan.
the-aqualish are a-species of tusked-humanoids from the-planet ando.
blarina ==== are a-species of short,-pudgy,-sentient-humanoids from the-planet rina-major.
the-males are known for the-males spirit of travel and are among the-first-species in the-galaxy to develop interstellar-travel, while the-females usually remain on the-males homeworld to look after the-children and govern the-place.
the-er'kit are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet er'kit.
= are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet dorin.
body is covered by a-leathery-hide, which allows kel-dors ==== to survive the-vacuum of space for a-brief-time, and kel-dors ==== wear respiratory-masks and protective-eye-goggles on planets with oxygen-rich-atmospheres, because their-body is toxic to kel-dors ====.
the-only-known-member of this-species, prosset-dibs, could use the-force to make up for the-force lack of eyesight and become familiar with the-force surroundings ====
mortis-gods ==== are believed to be the-embodiments of the-force itself: the-light-side, the-dark-side, and the-balance between the two.
known across the-galaxy as greed-driven-bankers, greed-driven-bankers ran the-intergalactic-banking-clan during the-galactic-republic-era.
nosaurians are a-humanoid-sentient-species from the-planet new-plympto.
the-xexto are a-species of short,-four-armed-humanoids from the-planet troiken.
zygerrians are a-humanoid,-feline-like-sentient-species from zygerria, who had built and run the-biggest-slave-empire in the-galaxy, until the-jedi overthrew them and outlawed slavery.
attempts to rebuild the-biggest-slave-empire were made during the-clone-wars and the-imperial-era, but were thwarted.
list of the-mandalorian-characters list of star-wars creatures list of star-wars droid characters list of star-wars legends characters
list of star-wars rebels characters list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars cast members list of star-wars:
star-wars cast members
