the-skywalker-saga is an-upcoming-lego-themed-action-adventure-game scheduled to be released for microsoft-windows, nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox one, and xbox-series-x/s.
an-upcoming-lego-themed-action-adventure-game scheduled to be released for microsoft-windows, nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox one, and xbox-series-x/s. will adapt all-nine-entries in the-skywalker-saga-series of films.
unlike most-lego-video-games in which players had to advance through the-story in a-linear-order, players can choose to start the-game from any of the-nine-skywalker-saga-episodes and complete-players in any-order players wish.
the-game features 300-playable-characters.
the-official-artwork was revealed on 4 may 2020.disney and lucasfilm had not shared significant-details of the-rise of skywalker-skywalker with the-game-team before the-film's-release.
in the-meantime, tt-games worked on other-aspects of the-game until lucasfilm shared more-details.
the-game is developed in traveller's-tales'-new-engine, ntt (pronounced-entity).
the-skywalker-saga will use original voice acting, with the-first-actor of the-game being billy-dee-williams voicing lando-calrissian.
the following day at the-2020-gamescom-opening-night-live, the-lego-website was announced that the-game would release in q1/q2 2021 under the-description of "spring 2021" with additional-versions on the-playstation-5-and-xbox-series-x/s.
on 2-april 2021, it was announced that the-game had been delayed, with no-further-release-window specified.
the-game will be available in a-standard-edition and a-deluxe-edition.
physical-deluxe-editions will be released for nintendo-switch, playstation 4, playstation 5 and an-xbox-version which can function as both-the-xbox-one-and-xbox-series-x/s-versions depending on which-console it is played on.
wicket-wystri-warrick appeared in two non-canonical made-for-television movies, an-animated-series, and promotional-media for star-wars from 1983 to 1986.
in concluding his-original-star-wars-trilogy, george-lucas had foreseen the-decisive-battle in the-galactic-civil-war taking place between the-wookiees and the-empire; however, george-lucas considered chewbacca too skilled with technology, and wanted a-more-primitive-species than the-wookiees to defeat the-empire.
although neither-the-word ewok nor any of the ewok names are actually mentioned in return of the-jedi, a-handful of ewoks were named by the-production, mentioned in the-novelization, and first appeared in the-kenner-action-figure-line based on the-movie.
generally considered to be the most well known of the-ewoks, wicket would be given the-lead-role in almost-all-subsequent-ewok-related-media released after return of the-jedithe-jedi.
the-then-11-year-old-actor came to be involved in the-film after the-then-11-year-old-actor grandmother heard a-radio-ad calling for short-actors.
warwick-davis began work on the-film in january 1982.
in april 2014 (with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production), lucasfilm separated the-star-wars-expanded-universe (rebranded as star-wars-legends) from official-star-wars-canon.
wicket was featured in the-1984-tv-film the-ewok-adventure (set before return of the-jedi), theatrically released as caravan of courage: an-ewok-adventure.
in the-film, in the-film accompanies stranded-brother and sister-mace and cindel-towani as
in the-film and the-ewoks help find and rescue the-children's-missing-parents from the-giant-gorax.
wicket would return the following year in a-sequel, ewoks: the-battle for endor.
the-film strengthened the-bonds between wicket and cindel, with wicket rescuing wicket family and learning to speak some-galactic-basic (which wicket seems to have forgotten by the-time of return of the-jedi).
the-series would also often showcase wicket and the-ewoks'-battles with the-duloks, morag the-witch, and other-creatures on the-moon of endor.
wicket and the-ewoks are a-controversial-addition to return of the-jedi and the-star-wars-universe in general, and are seen by some to be the-weakest-link of the-original-trilogy.
bold indicates original-cast-member; all-other-cast were brought into the-series as an-ex.^-ages at the-time the-cast-member appeared in the-serieskey:
this is a-list of star-wars cast-members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series.
a-list of star-wars cast members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series is sorted by film and character, as some of the-characters were portrayed by multiple-actors.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983) and reprised the-roles in the-sequel-trilogy-films
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith (2005) as a-younger-obi-wan-kenobi, being top billed in the-later-two-films.
daniels also appeared in solo, but as a-different-character named "tak", as well as a character named "dannl faytonni" in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, the latter being alongside c-3po.
in 2008, an-animated-film entitled star wars: the-clone-wars was released.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
despite the-decanonization, the-television-films do retain many-major-cast-members from the-original-trilogy reprising the-television-films roles; the-holiday-special featured most of the-cast from the-original-film, while the-ewok-prequel-films featured warwick-davis reprising his-role as wicket, who originated in return of the-jedi.
attack of the clones star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith star wars episode iv:
the-empire strikes back star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi-star-wars episode vii:
however, rose-role in the-film was far smaller than in the-last-jedi, which became a-major-point of criticism among critics and fans alike.
although rose-tico was first conceived for the-film star-wars:
the last jedi: cobalt-squadron (2017), by elizabeth-wein released on december 15, 2017, and cobalt-squadron is set just before and during the-events of star-wars:
the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in star-wars sequel trilogy.
rose and paige were raised on the-planet hays-minor, the-impoverished-mining-planet in the-otomok-star-system far beyond the-policing-efforts of the-new-republic-government.
the-first-order used the-planet to test the-first-order weapons and kidnap children to indoctrinate as stormtroopers.
at the-beginning of cobalt-squadron, rose and paige later learn the-fugitives were from a-planet in the-atterra-system which, like rose and paige's home planet, has been devastated by the-first-order.
rose and the-others return to the-supremacy and infiltrate the-ship disguised as first-order-officers, but are captured by general-hux and captain-phasma before rose and the-others can disable the-tracking-device.
she later participates in the-climactic-battle-scene at the-end of the-film, when the-resistance confronts the-sith-eternal's-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, the-final-order, at the-planet of exegol.
the-issue, entitled age of resistance: rose, was released in september 2019, and focused on rose's relationship with paige-sister-paige during the-first-order's-invasion of hays-minor.
it also includes a-scene in-which-rose and paige, upon learning of the-destruction of hays-minor, seek to take a-ship and fly back to the-planet for a-suicidal-revenge-attack against first-order, but are stopped by leia and urged to stay and serve the-resistance instead.
the-series depicted two--or-three-minute-stories from various-points in the-star-wars-chronology. "
allegiance, the-first-issue of which was released on october 9, 2019.
written by ethan-sacks and illustrated by luke-ross and lee-loughridge, allegiance is set shortly after the-last-jedi, and in the-story leia asks rose to accompany leia on a-mission to the-planet-mon-cala to help secure allies for the-resistance.
a-series of lego-star-wars launched on october 29, 2018, with tran once again providing the-voice of rose.
a-profile about rose-tico was featured in star-wars: women of the-galaxy, a-book by amy-ratcliffe highlighting 75-female-characters from the star-wars franchise.
the-book was released on october 30, 2018.in the weeks approaching the-release of the-rise of skywalker, rose was featured in the-novels star-wars: spark of the-resistance and lego star-wars: resistance-reborn, both of which were released as part of a-multimedia-project called "journey to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker".
spark of the-resistance, a-junior-novel by justina-ireland released on october 4, 2019, tells the-story of rose, rey, poe, and bb-8 as poe, and bb-8 travel to an-isolated-planet called minfar to investigate a-distress-signal.
rose has a-smaller-part of in resistance-reborn, a-novel by rebecca-roanhorse released on november 5, 2019, which details the-efforts by general-leia-organa and the-other-resistance-members to rebuild the-other-resistance-members forces immediately following the-defeats sustained in the-last-jedi.
however, the-example rose set for finn inspired finn, leading finn to capture some of rose idealism and place the-mission of the-resistance ahead of finn.
rose-tico was created by rian-johnson for the-film star-wars:
details about the-character were first discussed at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in orlando, florida, on april 14, 2017.
the-final-audition took place in london with full-hair, makeup, and costuming.
three weeks later, in november 2015, johnson met with tran and offered tran the-role.
a-vietnamese-american said a-vietnamese-american believes it was important to have a-strong-female-asian-american-character in star-wars because a-vietnamese-american knows from a-vietnamese-american own childhood how important it is for young-people to see characters like young-people represented in film, television, and books.
in december 2017, disney arranged for tran to embark on a-press-tour in singapore and tran parents’ home country of vietnam to publicize the-last-jedi.
to prevent secrets about the-film from leaking during filming, tran and the-other-actors were driven around the-sets in cars with tinted-windows, and made to wear black-robes so people would not recognize people.
after filming wrapped on the-last-jedi, tran spent a year away from acting, in part to enjoy tran last few months of anonymity before tran role in star-wars became widely known.
the-first-rose-tico-action-figures were revealed by hasbro on september 1, 2017, as part of a-star-wars-merchandising-event called "force friday".
the-audiobook was released on december 15, 2017, the-same-day as the-novel and the-last-jedi-film.
comic-book-writer-delilah-s.-dawson wrote rose-tico's-stories for both-the-"rose-&-paige"-issue of star-wars: forces of destiny comic book series, and the "rose knows" story in the star-wars adventures comic book series.
before writing the-stories, dawson read the-script for the-last-jedi in november 2016, as well as an-early-draft of the-cobalt-squadron-novel.
likewise, matthew-aguilar of comicbooks.com said tran already developed a-large-fanbase among star-wars-fans even before the-film was released.
the-daily-herald included tran's-performance as rose-tico in the-daily-herald list of 10-great-screen-performers from 2017, with writer-sean-strangland calling the-character "a-delight".
richard-trenholm of cnet called rose delightful to watch, praising richard-trenholm of cnet chemistry with finn and saying richard-trenholm of cnet represented the-"indomitable-moral-spirit of star-wars with richard-trenholm of cnet clear-eyed determination to do the-right-thing".
salon-writer-matthew-rozsa, who disliked the-film and particularly criticized the-canto-bight-sequence, nevertheless noted: "the-chemistry between finn and rose makes finn and rose easily the-most-likable-and-sympathetic-characters in the-film".
tor.com-writer-emmet-asher-perrin said the-character "deserves more-attention than the-film is capable of giving kelly-marie-tran".
several-critics responded negatively to the-canto-bight-subplot with rose and finn, calling it an unnecessary and distracting element of the-film that contributed little to the-overall-storyline.
rose-tico's-entry on wookieepedia, an-online-encyclopedia about the-star-wars-universe, was edited to include racist-and-vulgar-comments in december 2017, which drew national-media-attention.
a-study released in october 2018 found that up-to-51% of the-attacks tran received on social-media may have come from russian-bots instead of actual-star-wars-fans.
in response to the-harassment, tran wrote an-essay for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
when tran appeared during a-panel about the-rise of skywalker at the-star-wars-celebration in chicago on april 12, 2019, tran received a-swell of support from the-crowd, who chanted tran name and gave tran a-standing-ovation, causing the-actress to tear up onstage.
a-set of individual-the-rise of skywalker-character-posters released on november 20 initially did not include rose, but a-poster featuring her was released the next day.
following the-release of the-rise of skywalker, rose's-minor-role in the-film became a-major-point of criticism among fans and reviewers alike.
several-critics in their-reviews of the-film criticized rose's-minor-role, with some calling it a validation of the-people who attacked and harassed tran online.
a-planet is an-astronomical-body orbiting a-star or stellar-remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by a-planet own gravity, is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear-fusion, and – according to the-international-astronomical-union but not-all-planetary-scientists – has cleared the-international-astronomical-union neighbouring region of planetesimals.
a-planet is ancient, with ties to history, astrology, science, mythology, and religion.
beneath the-greeks-φαίνων (phainon), and nearer to the-earth, moves the-planet of jupiter, which is called in greek-φαέθων (phaethon); it completes the-same-round of the-twelve-signs in twelve-years, and performs in it course the-same-variations as the-planet of saturn.
beneath this is the-planet of mercury, which is called by the-greeks στίλβων (stilbon); it traverses the-round of the-zodiac in about-the-time of the-year’s-revolution, and never withdraws more-than-one-sign’s distance from the-sun, moving at one-time in advance of it, and at another in its-rear.
the lowest of the-five-wandering-stars, and the-one nearest the-earth, is the-planet of venus, which is called φωσϕόρος (phosphoros) in greek, and lucifer in latin, when it is preceding the-sun, but ἕσπερος (hesperos) when it is following it; it completes it course in a-year, traversing the-zodiac both latitudinally and longitudinally, as is also done by the-planets above it, and on whichever-side of the-sun it is, it never departs more-than-two-signs’-distance from it."
until the-mid-19th-century, the-number of "planets" rose rapidly because any-newly-discovered-object directly orbiting the-sun was listed as a-planet by the-scientific-community.
then, on october 6, 1995, michel-mayor and didier-queloz of the-geneva-observatory announced the-first-definitive-detection of an-exoplanet orbiting an-ordinary-main-sequence-star (51-pegasi).the-discovery of extrasolar-planets led to another-ambiguity in defining a-planet: the-point at which a-planet becomes a-star.
acknowledging the-problem, the-iau set about creating the-definition of planet, and produced one in august 2006.
this-formation-distinction between a-sub-brown-dwarf and a-planet is not universally agreed upon; astronomers are divided into two-camps as whether to consider the-formation-process of a-planet as part of a-planet division in classification.
for example, a-planet formed by accretion around a-star may get ejected from the-system to become free-floating, and likewise-a-sub-brown-dwarf that formed on a-planet formed by accretion around a-star own in a-star cluster through cloud-collapse may get captured into orbit around a-star.
the-reporting of newly-discovered-large-kuiper-belt-objects as planets - particularly-eris - triggered the august 2006
the-iau-decision on what a-planet is.
because was only generally accepted as a-planet in the-17th-century, there is no-tradition of naming after a-god.
after a-planet reaches a-mass somewhat larger than mars'-mass, it begins to accumulate an-extended-atmosphere, greatly increasing the-capture-rate of the-planetesimals by means of atmospheric-drag.
an-exoplanet (extrasolar-planet) is a-planet outside the-solar-system.
a-planetary-mass-object (pmo), planemo, or planetary-body is a-celestial-object with a-mass that falls within the-range of the-definition of a-planet: massive enough to achieve hydrostatic-equilibrium (to be rounded under a-planet own gravity), but not enough to sustain core-fusion like a-star.
a-planet's-year depends on a-planet's-year distance from a-planet's-year ; the farther a-planet is from a-planet , not only the longer the distance a-planet must travel, but also the slower a-planet speed, because a-planet is less affected by a-planet 's gravity.
as a-planet approaches periastron, a-planet speed increases as a-planet trades gravitational-potential-energy for kinetic-energy, just as a-falling-object on earth accelerates as a-planet falls; as the-planet reaches apastron, a-planet speed decreases, just as an-object thrown upwards on earth slows down as a-planet reaches the-apex of a-planet trajectory.
the-semi-major-axis is the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image).
the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image) is not the same as the-distance from a-planet to the-half-way-point along the-longest-diameter of its-elliptical-orbit (see image)
the-inclination of a-planet tells how far above or below an-established-reference-plane a-planet orbit lies.
the-points at which a-planet crosses above and below a-planet reference plane are called a-planet ascending and descending nodes.
the-rotation of a-planet can be induced by several-factors during formation.
the-defining-dynamic-characteristic of a-planet is that a-planet has cleared a-planet neighborhood.
a-planet that has cleared its-neighborhood has accumulated enough-mass to gather up or sweep away all-the-planetesimals in its-orbit.
this-characteristic was mandated as part of the-iau's-official-definition of a-planet in august, 2006.
although to date this-criterion only applies to the-solar-system, a-number of young-extrasolar-systems have been found in which evidence suggests orbital-clearing is taking place within their-circumstellar-discs.
a-planet's-defining-physical-characteristic is that a-planet is massive enough for the-force of a-planet own gravity to dominate over the-electromagnetic-forces binding a-planet physical structure, leading to a-state of hydrostatic-equilibrium.
the-composition of earth's-atmosphere is different from the-other-planets because the-various-life-processes that have transpired on the-planet have introduced free-molecular-oxygen.
the-presence of a-magnetic-field indicates that the-planet is still geologically alive.
these-fields significantly change the-interaction of the-planet and solar-wind.
the-ninth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed on 12-july 2014, and began airing 28 october 2014.
on 12-july 2013 it was announced that sophie-kasaei had been sacked from the-show following an-incident which took place in a-nightclub where sophie-kasaei used a-racist-term off camera.
in november 2015 it was confirmed that chantelle-connelly and marty-mckenna had joined the-cast for the-twelfth-series.
it was later confirmed that sophie would replace sophie as sophie had expressed sophie desire to return following the-big-birthday-battle.
chantelle departed the-cast during the-thirteenth-series meaning the-series would be chantelle last.
it was announced that the-thirteenth-series-trailer in october 2016, meant the-cast would be in magaluf, ibiza, kavos and ayia-napa.
in december 2016, it was announced that holly and kyle would be leaving geordie-shore together in the-thirteenth-series-finale.
in november 2016, the-cast announced via twitter that filming for the-fourteenth-series had commenced and sophie-kasaei had made yet-another-comeback, however sophie-kasaei had permanently rejoined the-main-cast since sophie-kasaei departure in the-seventh-series.
after the-seventeenth-season, dee and nick did not return to the-show.
faith-mullen, abbie-holborn and adam-guthrie did not return for the-nineteenth-season, however the last two appeared on a-recurring-basis throughout the-nineteenth-season.
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is the-third-installment of the star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the nine-part "skywalker saga".
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
principal-photography began in august 2018 at pinewood-studios in england and wrapped in february 2019, with post-production completed in november 2019.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 grossed over $1.074 billion worldwide, becoming the-seventh-highest-grossing-film of 2019;
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 was the-lowest-grossing-installment of the-trilogy, the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 turned an-estimated-net-profit of $300 million.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 received three-nominations at the-92nd-academy-awards (best-original-score, best-visual-effects, and best-sound-editing) as well as three at the-73rd-british-academy-film-awards (also-best-special-visual-effects, best-original-music, and best-sound).
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance-domhnall-gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire-lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi
joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather billy-dee-williams as lando-calrissian, a-veteran of the-rebel-alliance, a-former-owner of the-millennium-falcon, and an-old-friend of chewbaccabillie lourd and greg-grunberg reprise their-roles as lieutenant-kaydel-ko-connix and temmin
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
jodie-comer and billy-howle briefly appear as rey's-parents, while tom-wilton and screenwriter chris-terrio briefly appear as the-performer and voice for aftab-ackbar, the-son of admiral-ackbar, respectively; and mike-quinn and kipsang-rotich return as the-performer and voice of nien-nunb, respectively.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was announced as the-director of the-film; colin-trevorrow was to write the-script with frequent-collaborator-derek-connolly.
carrie-fisher died in december 2016.
in august 2017, it was announced that jack-thorne would rewrite the-script.
in september 2017, lucasfilm stated that trevorrow had left the-production following creative-differences, resulting trevorrow working relationship with kathleen-kennedy to become unmanageable after failing to deliver a-satisfactory-script, despite writing several-drafts.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
the-story was rewritten to some-extent before filming was completed.
the-film was produced by abrams-co--company-bad-robot-productions, kathleen-kennedy, and michelle-rejwan.
carrie-fisher, who played leia-organa, died on december 27, 2016.
in january 2017, lucasfilm stated that there were no-plans to digitally generate fisher's-performance as lucasfilm had for rogue one (2016).
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
principal-photography began on august 1, 2018, at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
filming also took place in wadi-rum, jordan.
due to the-tight-schedule, some-editing took place on set.
footage from the-film was shown at the-walt-disney-company's-annual-shareholders-meeting on march 7, 2019.
two-weeks of reshoots took place at pinewood involving hamill, ridley, and isaac in july 2019.
another-round of reshoots took place between late-september and october.
roger-guyett finished post-production on november 25, 2019.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
in august 2019, it was revealed that john-williams had written about 35 of an-expected-135-minutes of music for the-film, which according to john-williams brother-don, would incorporate all of the-major-themes of the-skywalker-saga.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 20, 2019.
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
on august 24, a-new-poster and "sizzle-reel" was released at d23; the latter was released to the public two days later.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
: he transferred he consciousness into a-clone-body following he death in return of the-jedi, and
the-junior-novel and corresponding-audiobook are by michael-kogge and were released on april 21, 2020.
additionally, a-five-issue-marvel-comics-adaptation written by jody-houser and illustrated by will-sliney was originally planned to debut in mid-2020, but this was later canceled, making the-film the first in the-franchise not to receive a-comic-adaptation.
in december 2019, the-video-game fortnite-battle-royale released several-cosmetics featuring character-skins for rey, finn, a-sith-trooper, kylo-ren, and zorii-bliss along with a-tie-fighter-glider, a-millennium-falcon-glider (which was given to players for free from the-winterfest-event), four-emotes, and two-free-banners.
on december 14, fortnite's-publisher-epic-games released a-preview of the-film on an in-game theater screen as a-live-event.
the-film was originally planned to be released in the-united-states on may 24, 2019, before being pushed back to december 20.
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-tcl-chinese-theatre in los-angeles on december 16.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-4k-version of the-film was released on disney+
on may 4, which is reportedly two months ahead of the-4k-version of the-film previously-scheduled-release-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $300 million when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale on october 21, 2019, and the-film sold more-tickets in pre-sale-tickets first hour of availability on atom-tickets than the-previous-record-holder for ticket-sales, avengers: endgame (2019).
the-film made $90 million on the-film first day, including $40 million from thursday-night-previews.
the-film went on to debut to $177.3 million, and the-film was also noted that saturday (which saw a-47%-drop from friday's gross) was the-busiest-shopping-day of the-year, likely affecting ticket-sales.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-film went on to have a-five-day-total of $138.8 million, including $76 million for the-weekend.
in the-film third-weekend, the-film made $34.5 million, remaining in first, before being dethroned in
the-film fourth weekend by newcomer 1917 (2019).worldwide-the-film was projected to gross around $450 million in
the-film made $59.1 million from
the-film first-day of international-release in 46-countries.
in china, the-film made $1.6 million (rmb11.6 million) through
the-film went on to open to $198 million from overseas-countries and $373.5 million worldwide, coming in below projections and 47% lower than the-last-jedi's-total.
as of january 2020, the-film is the-lowest-rated-live-action-film of the-star-wars-series.
lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
owen-gleiberman of variety called the filmthe most elegant, emotionally rounded, and gratifying star-wars-adventure since the-glory-days of star-wars (1977) and the empire strikes back (1980) [...]
scott-mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
people involved on the-film defended asian-actress-kelly-marie-tran, with some claiming some of the-attackers were racist, and body shamers.
according to cinemascore, american-audiences gave the-film an-average-grade of "b+" on an-a+ to f-scale, the lowest among the-live-action-films.
star-wars ==
tran has also been cast as dawn in the-film
in december 2017, tran-character-rose-tico's-entry on wookieepedia, an-online-encyclopedia about the-star-wars-universe, was edited to include racist-and-vulgar-comments, which drew national-media-attention.
after a-prolonged-stretch of silence about her-harassment, tran wrote an-essay on the-subject for the-new-york-times entitled "kelly marie tran: i won't be marginalized by online-harassment", which ran on august 21, 2018.
they track fennec to a-part of the-planet known as the-dune-sea, where they discover the-dead-body of another-bounty-hunter she had previously killed.
at the-conclusion of the-latter-episode, fennec and fett return to tatooine and kill bib-fortuna, who has been in charge of jabba the-hutt's-palace since his-death.
a-younger-fennec will appear in the-book of boba-fett, scheduled to be released in december 2021, with ming-na-wen reprising ming-na-wen role.
wen has described star-wars as wen "favorite-all-time-genre".
after attending the-premiere for the-mandalorian on november 13, 2019, wen posted photos from the-event on twitter and wrote: " what a night!
the-character of fennec-shan and casting of wen were first announced at the-d23-expo in anaheim, california on august 23, 2019.
footage of fennec-shand was first publicly shown in a-30-second-teaser-trailer for the-mandalorian released on november 4, 2019.
vanity-fair-writer-anthony-breznican felt men's-health-writer evan-romano continued a-positive-and-significant-trend of greater-diversity in star-wars casting, citing other-examples of asian-actors in recent-projects such as kelly-marie-tran in the-last-jedi and christopher-sean in star-wars resistance.
prior to fennec-shand return in the-second-season, several-reviewers felt fennec-shand was eliminated too quickly and did not get the-chance to live up to fennec-shand potential.
the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed in october 2013 after cast-member-holly-hagan announced the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne on twitter and is expected to air 22 july 2014.
all-other-cast-members from the-eighth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne return with the-addition of new-cast-member-aaron-chalmers who had briefly appeared during series two of the-show as a-one-night-stand of holly's.
an-exclusive-first-trailer for the-series was released during an-episode of ex-on the-beach on 3-june 2014.
an-exclusive-first-trailer for the-series was revealed on 10-june 2014 that another-new-cast-member had joined, 21-year-old-kyle-christie.
screenwriter-michael-arndt said that screenwriter-michael-arndt struggled with introducing the-young-woman as the-main-character in the-origin-story of a-female-jedi while keeping kira from being overshadowed after kira early meeting with luke-skywalker, whose-role in the-film was eventually minimized.
abrams said that "we always wanted to write rey as the-central-character" and that other-female-representation in the-story was also important.
daisy-ridley was announced as part of the-cast at the-end of april 2014.
composer-john-williams said composer-john-williams immediately loved ridley in the-film and found composing ridley theme an-interesting-challenge.
impressed with rey's-bravery and piloting-skill, han offers she a-job on the-millennium-falcon; however, rey declines rey offer, feeling that she has to return to jakku.
after convene at maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on the-planet
takodana to return bb-8 to the-resistance, the-first-order is alerted to their-presence.
maz debates that whoever abandoned rey will never return to jakku, and rey only option is to seek out strength in the-force.
ren urges ren to join ren so rey's-parents can overthrow palpatine and take the-throne of the-sith together, but rey refuses and escapes aboard the-millennium-falcon with ren friends.
an-upcoming-issue of the-comic-book-series star-wars-adventures will feature a-story set after the-events of the-film featuring rey, finn, and poe continuing to fight the-first-order.
in the-episode, set 16 years before rey-birth and 35 years before the-force awakens, the-young-padawan ezra-bridger briefly hears some of rey-lines from the-film (specifically rey speaking to the-unconscious-finn at the-end) in the-world between worlds, a-dimension that exists outside of time and space.
the-character of rey was also introduced as a-player-"skin" in the-game fortnite.
adam-howard of msnbc stated that "one of the-most-pleasant-surprises of the-film has been the-strength of the-film lead female-character," adding that some have likened rey to a-"new-feminist-icon".
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, and that star-wars: knights of the-old-republic character arc shares thematic similarities with that of bastila's.
the-view that rey's-parentage is luke's-daughter was especially prominent, with fans and critics highlighting their-story-arc-similarities, star-wars being a-luke-skywalker-saga, rey having a-strong-attachment to luke's-lightsaber, and being exceptionally strong with the-force without any-training.
it is a-good-thing that "rey is the-child of nobody of particular-importance to the-story so far."
josh-spiegel of the-hollywood-reporter stated that although some-fans might be disappointed by ren's-revelation, it "fits in perfectly" with the-film's through line that one can be "both exceptionally gifted in the-force and also not a skywalker" because "the-spirit of the-jedi extends ... to anyone with a-gift and the-power to believe.
before the-release of the-rise of skywalker, abrams said that "there's more to the-story than you've seen," though, according to ridley, the-facts presented in the-jedi would not change.
inverse similarly argues that the-end of the-film sees rey reject "any-power rey grandfather held over rey" and "bury the-past", in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
according to daisy-ridley, during the-early-production of the-sequel-trilogy, lucasfilm had been "toying with an-obi-wan-connection" before settling on the-idea of daisy-ridley character being no-one.
retrieved december 29, 2015.
retrieved december 19, 2015.
rey in the starwars.com databank rey on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise, centered on a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980), and return of the-jedi (1983).
a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977) depicts the-adventures of various-characters "a long time ago in a-galaxy far, far away".
in october 2012, the-walt-disney-company acquired lucasfilm for $4.06 billion.
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-expanded-universe-material as star-wars-legends and declared lucasfilm non-canon to the-franchise.
a-new-dawn by john-jackson-miller, published in september 2014.this is a-list of original-novels, novel-adaptations, original-junior-novels, junior novel-adaptations, young-readers, and short-stories in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), by matthew-stover (19-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (junior-novel) (2005), by patricia-wrede (19-bby) (y)
the-empire strikes back (1980), by donald-f.-glut (3-aby)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), by james-kahn (4-aby)
return of the-jedi –
william-shakespeare's-the-jedi doth return (2014), by ian-doescher (4-aby)
the-clone-wars, star-wars-rebels, and star-wars-resistance, as well as any-books, comics, and video-games published after april 2014.
the-rise of the-empire (october 2015) ==== "mercy-mission" by melissa-scott (14-bby)
this-body of work represents the-original-star-wars expanded universe, which was rebranded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
i – the-phantom-menace, lucasfilm has divided lucasfilm titles by fictional-"era" with symbols designating such.
this-era contains stories taking place more-than-25,000-years before star wars episode iv
old-galactic-republic-era === contains stories taking place 25,000-to-1,000-years before star wars episode iv:
this-era contains stories taking place within 100-years before star wars episode iv: a-new-hope.
the-clone-wars ====
the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby) (y)
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ====
(y)-secret-weapon (2007) (y) against the-empire (2007) (y)
han-solo at stars'-end (1979), by brian-daley han-solo's revenge (1979), by brian-daley han-solo and the-lost-legacy (1980), by brian-daley ====
this-era contains stories taking place within five-years after the-events of star wars episode iv: a-new-hope.
ghost of the-jedi (1997)
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi ====
= takes place from five-to-25-years after star wars episode iv
soldier for the-empire (1997) (0-aby) (y)
the-lost-city of the-jedi (1992)
(y)-mission from mount-yoda (1993) (y)-queen of the-empire (1993)
heir to the-empire (1991), by timothy-zahn (9-aby)
children of the-jedi (1995), by barbara-hambly (12–13-aby)
(y) return to ord-mantell (1998), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
under the-black-sun (omnibus – return to ord-mantell, trouble on cloud-city, & crisis at crystal-reef) by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby) (y) ==
this-era takes place within 25-to-39-years after star wars episode iv:
= takes place
fate of the-jedi ====
tales from the-empire (1997), edited by peter-schweighofer (various) (4-aby)
beneath the-planet of the-apes, escape from the-planet of the-apes, conquest of the-planet of the-apes and battle for the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
a-reboot-film-series commenced in 2011 with rise of the-planet of the-apes, which was followed by dawn of the-planet of the-apes in 2014 and war for the-planet of the-apes in 2017.
the-series has influenced subsequent-films, media, and art, as well as popular-culture and political-discourse.
the-series began with french-author-pierre-boulle's-1963-novel-la-planète-des-singes.
eventually, mérou discovers that humans once dominated the-planet until humans-complacency allowed the-more-industrious-apes to overthrow humans.
british-author-xan-fielding translated boulle into english; boulle was published in the-united-kingdom as monkey-planet and in the-united-states as planet of the-apes.
however, the-story intrigued jacobs, who bought the-film-rights immediately.
serling's-script changed elements of boulle's-novel, introducing cold-war-themes; notably, serling's-script devised a-new-twist-ending that revealed the-planet to be a-future-earth where humans had destroyed humans through nuclear-warfare.
the-team recorded a-brief-screen-test featuring heston, which ultimately convinced 20th-century-fox the-film could succeed.
though had not made the-film with sequels in mind, the-film success led to consider the-prospect.
beneath the-planet of the-apes (1970) ===
planning for the-sequel, eventually titled beneath the-planet of the-apes, began two months after the-film's-release.
the-story follows franciscus'-character, an-astronaut who, while searching for taylor, inadvertently follows him into the-future.
the-film opened on may 26, 1970.
unlike the-film predecessor, beneath was poorly reviewed; critics typically regard the-film as the worst of the-apes sequels other than the-last-one, battle for the-planet of the-apes.
nonetheless, the-film was a-major-box-office hit, nearing the-original's-numbers.
despite a-conclusion depicting the-planet of the-apes's-nuclear-destruction, fox requested another-sequel, creating a-series.
escape from the-planet of the-apes (1971) ===
paul-dehn immediately started work on what became escape from the-planet of the-apes.
to work around a-greatly-diminished-budget of $2.5 million, which required a-tight-production-schedule, as well as beneath's seemingly-definitive-ending, the-film took the-series in a-new-direction by transporting zira (kim-hunter) and cornelius (roddy-mcdowall, returning to the-role after being absent from beneath) back in time to the-contemporary-united-states, reducing the-need for expensive-sets and ape-make-up-effects.
the-film opened on may 21, 1971, less than a year after beneath.
the-film was well-received by critics.
conquest of the-planet of the-apes (1972) ===
based on the-strong-positive-response to escape, fox ordered conquest of the-planet of the-apes, though the-apes provided a-comparatively-low-budget of $1.7 million.
the-film opened on june 30, 1972.
reviews were mixed, but the-ending left the-series open to another-sequel and conquest was successful enough at the-box-office that fox commissioned another-film.
battle for the-planet of the-apes (1973) ===
fox approved battle for the-planet of the-apes the-apes with a-$1.2-million-budget, the lowest of the-series.
series-writer-paul-dehn submitted a-treatment, but illness forced series-writer-paul-dehn to leave the-film before completing the-script.
by one-interpretation, a-statue of caesar cries tears of joy because the-species have broken the-cycle of oppression, giving the-series an-optimistic-finale.
jacobs died on june 27, 1973, bringing an-end to the-apjac-productions-era of the-planet of the-apes-franchise.
cbs picked up the-series for cbs 1974 autumn lineup.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays.
the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays earned low-ratings during the-show premiered on september 13, 1974, filling cbs's-8–9-p.m.-time-slot on fridays run, a fact the-production-team attributed to repetitive-storytelling and too-little-screen-time for the-apes who made the-franchise famous.
given the-considerable-production-costs, cbs canceled the-show after 14-episodes, the-last-airing on december 20, 1974.in 1981, fox reedited ten of the-episodes into five-television-films.
five-television-films were given what scholar-eric-greene calls "the most outlandish titles of the-apes-corpus": back to the-planet of the-apes; forgotten-city of the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; treachery and greed on the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; life, liberty and pursuit on the-planet of the-apesthe-apes; and farewell to the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
the-network contracted depatie-freleng-enterprises to produce a-half-hour-saturday-morning-cartoon titled return to the-planet of the-apes.
nbc broadcast 13-episodes between september 6 and november 29, 1975.
fox initiated plans to relaunch the-planet of the-apes-series in the-1980s, but the-project fell into a drawn-out and fruitless development phase—"development
at a--fox-executive's-invitation, rifkin pitched a-concept for return to the-planet of the-apes, an-alternative-sequel to planet that ignored the-other-four-films.
oliver-stone brought in terry-hayes as screenwriter and they developed a-script titled return of the-apes.
at one-point, executive-dylan-sellers insisted the-action-script include a-comic-scene involving apes playing baseball as executive-dylan-sellers "stamp" on the-film and fired hayes when executive-dylan-sellers left the-film out.
scientists go to an-ape-astronaut from a-distant-planet's-planet, where apes hunt humans; scientists locate a-cure but return to find earth overrun by simians.
the-studio budgeted the-film at $100 million, meaning broyles'-ambitious-script had to be altered to reduce costs; lawrence-konner and mark-rosenthal worked on rewrites even as the-film entered production.
the-film stars mark-wahlberg as astronaut-leo-davidson, who accidentally travels through a-wormhole to a-distant-planet where talking apes enslave humans.
the-film received mixed-reviews; most-critics believed the-film failed to compare to the-original.
the-film succeeded at the-box-office, taking in $362 million worldwide.
fox had initially hoped for a-sequel, but the-difficult-production left burton unenthusiastic about participating, and the-film failed to generate enough-interest for the-studio to pursue a-follow-up.
rise of the-planet of the-apes (2011) ===
in 2005, screenwriters-rick-jaffa and amanda-silver developed a-concept for a-new-planet of the-apes-film, eventually titled rise of the-planet of the-apesthe-apes.
he and silver pitched the-concept to fox as a-way to reboot the-apes-franchise by reinventing the-story of the-chimpanzee-caesar, the-lead-character of conquest and battle.
in 2010, producers chernin and dylan-clark of chernin entertainment stepped in to move the-film forward, retaining jaffa and silver as writers.
oliver-lindler writes that while the-film's-premise might identify the-film as a-remake of conquest, official-dispatches and professional-reviewers typically avoided the-term, instead calling the-film a prequel or "origin story" to the-original-planet of the-film and/or a reboot of the-series; fans and bloggers were more apt to refer to the-film as a-"remake".
rise debuted on august 5, 2011.
dawn of the-planet of the-apes (2014) ===
producers peter-chernin and dylan-clark started planning the-film eventually titled dawn of the-planet of the-apes the-apes just after rise's-release in 2011.
set 10 years after rise, the-film establishes that the-"simian-flu", a-side-effect of the-drug that enhanced the-apes'-intelligence, has killed most-humans.
released on july 11, 2014, the-film was very well received by critics, who found the-film a strong follow-up to rise and lauded the-combination of an-engaging-script with impressive-special-effects.
the-film also performed very strongly at the-box-office, taking in $707 million in worldwide-grosses.
war for the-planet of the-apes (2017) ===
fox was confident enough in dawn of the-planet of the-apes the-apes that the-studio started planning for the-next-installment-months before the-film debuted.
after fox and chernin-entertainment screened matt-reeves'-cut of dawn, fox was contracted to return as director; fox also wrote the-script with mark-bomback.
given a-$150-million-budget, war for the-planet of the-apes the-apes was released on july 14, 2017.the-film depicts the-apes and humans in armed-conflict and follows caesar and caesar followers as caesar and his-followers track down the-mysterious-colonel, a-human-paramilitary-leader, and search for a-new-home.
serkis earned widespread-critical-acclaim; reviewers praised the-effects and narrative and found the-film a fitting conclusion to caesar's-story.
in october 2016, it was reported that a-fourth-film in the-new-series was being discussed.
in april 2019, following the-acquisition of 21st-century-fox by disney, disney announced that future-planet of more-apes-films are in development.
in august 2019, disney stated that any-future-installments would take place in the-universe first established in rise of the-planet of the-apes.
wes-ball explained that the-story will take place after the-events of war for the-planet of the-apes, and continue to follow "caesar's-legacy".
in may 2020, it was announced that josh-friedman will serve as screenwriter alongside ball, while rick-jaffa and amanda-silver will return to the-franchise as producers.
michael-avallone wrote the-novelization for beneath the-planet of the-apes in 1970.
jerry-pournelle, who later co-authored lucifer's-hammer and the-mote in god's-eye, wrote the-escape from the-planet of the-apes-novelization.
john-jakes, former science fiction writers of america president, wrote the-conquest of the-planet of the-apes novelizationthe-apes novelization.
the-trouble with tribbles", novelized battle for the-planet of the-apes.
marvel also published the-monthly-title-adventures on the-planet of the-apes from 1975 to 1976, comprising color-reprints of the-planet and beneath adaptations.
the-series follows caesar's-grandson and heir alexander as he struggles to govern ape-civilization.
malibu also published two-one-shot-comics, a-day on the-planet of the-apes and planet of the-apes: sins of the-fathers, a-prequel-story to the-original-film; a-trade-paperback collecting the-first-four-issues of the-main-series, titled monkey planet; and reissues of stories from marvel's-earlier-apes-series.
the-primate-directive and 2017's-king-kong-story-kong on the-planet of the-apes.
the-series, and particularly-the-live-action-apes-television-show and the-return to the-planet of the-apes-cartoon, generated numerous-toy-and-merchandising-tie-ins.
in 1983, 20th-century-fox-videogames developed a-planet of the-apes-game for the-atari 2600, which was to be the-first-computer-game based on the-series.
retrodesign completed and released the-game as revenge of the-apes in 2003.
in the-game, the-player controls taylor as the-player fights apes across several-levels inspired by the-film to reach the-statue of liberty.
a-video-game based on the-series did not appear until 2001.
fox-interactive began developing a-planet of the-apes-game in 1998 for pc and playstation as a-tie-in to the-long-gestating-remake-project.
fox and developer-visiware proceeded with the-game when the-project went into limbo, creating fox and developer-visiware own story based on boulle's-novel and the-original-films.
the-game is an-action-adventure in which players control astronaut-ulysses as astronaut-ulysses explores an-ape-ruled-future-earth.
despite fox-interactive-long-development, the-game missed the-debut of tim-burton's-planet of the-apes-film by two-months; the-game finally appeared on september 20, 2001, to mostly-negative-reviews.
in 2014, fox partnered with ndemic-creations on a-substantial-dawn of the-planet of the-apes–themed-update to the-mobile-game
in 2017, fox commissioned an-adventure-game to accompany war for the-planet of the-apes called planet of the-apes: last-frontier.
serkis'-digital-effects-company the-imaginarium worked on an-adventure-game to accompany war for the-planet of the-apes called planet of the-apes:
it was released on playstation 4 on november 21, 2017 to mixed-reviews.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes controls a-chimpanzee attempting to escape a-human-detention-facility.
imaginati-studios on a-vr-first-person-shooter, crisis on the-planet of the-apes was released on pc and playstation 4, receiving negative to average-reviews.
critics consider race to be the-planet of the-apes-series'-primary-theme.
fans'-interest in the-franchise continued through publications like marvel-comics'-planet of the-apes-magazine-and-science-fiction-conventions, where the-series was sufficiently popular to inspire "apecons"—conventions devoted entirely to films involving apes—in the-1970s.
the-simpsons parodied the-series several times.
in particular, the-episode "a-fish called selma" features the-washed-up-actor-troy-mcclure starring in a-broadway-musical-adaptation called stop the-planet of the-apes, i want to get off!
list of media == ===
rise of the-planet of the-apes and the-speculative as public-memory".
human no like smart-ape': figuring smart-ape as legal-person in rise of the-planet of the-apes".
timeline of the-planet of the-apes: the-definitive-chronology.
subverting the-cold-war in the-1960s: dr. strangelove, the-manchurian-candidate, and the-planet of the-apes".
the-remade-prequel: rise of the-planet of the-apes (2011)".
signifying monkeys: politics and story-telling in the-planet of the-apes-series".
archived from the original on december 13, 2017.
retrieved november 10, 2014.cs1
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes ordinary-humans vulnerability and weakness.
list of star-wars-species (a–e)
the-zabrak, also known as iridonians (when referring to the-zabrak who came from iridonia), were a-carnivorous-humanoid-species native to iridonia, a-planet located in the-mid-rim known for its-inhospitable-terrain and fierce-predatory-life.
list of star-wars-species (f–j)
jar-jar-binks, a-main-character, is a-gungan, and despite his-lack of intelligence, his becomes a-representative in the-galactic-senate in place of padme-amadala.
a-new-hope, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii and star-wars: bounty-hunter.
list of star-wars-species (k–o)
neimoidian:neimoidians are large-eyed,-amphibian-and-reptilian-like-sapient-bipeds native to the-planet of neimoidia.
list of star-wars-species (p–t)
their-first-appearance is in star-wars (1977) when luke and c-3po search for r2-d2 on tatooine.
known twi'lek include jedi-master-aayla-secura; mission and griff-vao from the-game
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic; and oola, a-slave-dancer in jabba the-hutt's-palace on tatooine.
list of star-wars-species (u–z)
one-specific-subtype of bantha is the-kashyyyk-greyclimber, which differs in that the-greyclimber has massive-cranial-bone-plates in place of horns; the-greyclimber has also adapted to climbing through the-evolution of articulated-toes that can grip wroshyr-trees.
aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam-priax are blue and resemble the-shape of an-eel.
the-force to enhance aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax senses and heal aquatic-parasites endemic to the-planet nam priax.
bergruutfa are large-7m-tall-herbivorous-grazers from the-planet
porgs are native to the-planet ahch-to, where jedi-master-luke-skywalker made jedi-master-luke-skywalker exile in the-years following the-victory over the-galactic-empire.
blistmok === is a-lizard, native to the-planet of mustafar.
the-blurrg is found in star-wars: the-clone-wars and in the-mandalorian-episode one.
the-clone-wars and star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
"crab-gliders" are small, carrion eating crablike-creatures native to the-planet of bespin.
the-croator, a-creature native to wyndigal-ii, a-planet with extreme-ultraviolet-radiation-exposure, is an-asexual,-flightless-avian-like-creature with reflective-plumage and an-unusually-long-proboscis, used to inhale tiny-fish and insects for food.
cy'een are huge-long-necked-reptilian-fish that are native to the-oceans of the-planet chad.
derkolo === are a-sentient-species native to the-planet sileron.
a-new-hope and the-series the-mandalorian.
krayt-dragons are massive,-carnivorous,-terrestrial-reptiles native to the-planet of tatooine.
this-prop was reportedly still in place when the-crew of attack of the-clones went there to film.
drexl-larvae appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
when dweebits were put onto belkadan, dweebits emitted extremely-noxious-fumes that made the-planet uninhabitable.
i – the-phantom-menace, the-gungan-frontier, star-wars: galactic-battlegrounds, and star-wars galaxies: the-ruins of dantooine.
they roamed the-plains and swamps of the-planet in large-herds, and they distinctive call could be heard for kilometers around.
alien-firaxan-sharks appeared in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
their-first-appearance was in the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-video-game.
the-gorog appears in star-wars
grauls originate from the-planet dantooine and walk like gorillas.
hoska === are grazers-herd-beasts living on the-plains of the-planet essowyn, and are primary-source of food for the-saurton, the-local-sentient-species.
the-old-republic ===
the-lylek is the-most-dangerous-predator on the-planet of ryloth.
first seen in the-empire strikes back feeding on the-millennium-falcon.
the-vynock was a-leathery,-winged-subspecies of the-mynock native to the-planet kalarba.
nexus are felines from the-planet of cholganna.
after the-massassi had departed from the-planet yavin-iv, they left behind a-creature known only as night-beast === to guard and protect they homeworld against anybody who might seek to take it over until they eventually returned.
the-original-outbreak occurred on the-planet taris, where they plagued the-inhabitants of the-undercity – criminals or they-descendants – but they also live on coruscant.
first appeared in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ===
it was first seen in return of the-jedi wherein luke-skywalker is attacked by one at the-behest of jabba the-hutt.
they appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic,
first appears in return of the-jedi.
they appear in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ii:
about 9 years before the-clone-wars began, some of these-spiders were brought to ryloth and altered to produce the-more-potent-narcotic-"glitteryll".
during the-czerka-occupation of kashyyyk, tach were hunted by poachers for their-glands, which were used as an-additive in brewing a-type of strong-ale unique to the-planet taris.
urai-fen in the-game
talz === were a-sentient-species native to the-planet orto-plutonia.
back (1980, with one appearing in the-center of this-movie-poster for the-film) , although a-mounted-tauntaun-head appears in return of the-jedi (1983) next to jabba the-hutt's-favorite-trophy, the-frozen-han-solo.
predators on the-planet
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, presumably created by the-sith to kill jedi.
in the-game terentateks are encountered in the kashyyyk shadow lands (terentateks is referred to as 'the-ritual-beast'), in naga-sadow's-tomb on korriban and the-shyrack-cave on korriban.
it is found on the-planet socorro and will also walk on land.
an-ugnaught who used to work for the-empire was a-slave and worked hard to buy an-ugnaught who used to work for the-empire freedom.
in the-beginning of return of the-jedi, leiha disguises herself as an-ugnuaght-bounty-hunter.
a-female-one named boga is ridden by obi-wan-kenobi in star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
several-other-wampa-sequences were planned for the-empire strikes back, but were ultimately cut.
one is briefly seen in return of the-jedi outside jabba's-palace.
puranetesu, ancient-greek: πλάνητες-planētes, "planets"; literally-"wanderers") was adapted into a-26-episode-anime-television-series by sunrise, which was broadcast on nhk from october 2003 through april 2004.
the-story revolves around the-crew of a-space-debris-collection-craft in the-year 2075.
the-story of planetes follows the-crew of the-ds-12-"toy-box" of the-space-debris-section, a-unit of technora-corporation.
the-story sometimes revolves around debris-collection itself, but more often the-concept of collecting "trash" in space is merely a-storytelling-method for building character-development.
many-other-plot-threads are also developed throughout the-series that help to explain each-character's-motivations and personalities.
the-story of planetes takes place in the-near-future.
the-story also depicts the-richer-countries monopolizing resources in space and the-poorer-ones falling into civil-war and being invaded or needing the-assistance of those-richer-countries, telling a-story of dependency-theory and the-negative-side of environmentalism.
hachimaki struggles throughout the-story with hachimaki own relationship with space and consequently,-other-people.
more generally, the-series examines the-difference between greed and ambition.
the-united-states of america is explicitly named in the-manga, as opposed to in the-anime where the-united-states of america is seldom mentioned in favor of "into" or the-international-treaty-organization (a-possible-reference to nato and seato), which seems to be a-federation of individual-countries including the-united-states and japan.
kodansha published the-series in five-volumes by splitting the-last-volume in two-parts from october 7, 2003, to february 8, 2005.
an-english-language-translation in north-america by tokyopop was rereleased in two-omnibus-volumes by dark-horse-comics on december 22, 2015, and may 10, 2016.
the-anime-adaptation of planetes began airing the-anime-adaptation of planetes 26-episode run on nhk bs-2 on october 4, 2003, and ended on february 23, 2004.
carlson, johanna-draper (23 december 2005).
under license from lucasfilm, the-game was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for ios, microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, nintendo-3ds, playstation-vita, and wii-u, on 28-june 2016, and for android on 27-july 2016.
the-game was ported and released by feral-interactive for os-x on 30-june 2016.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game includes content which covers the-period between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
the-game features over-200-playable-characters, including rey, finn, captain-phasma, poe-dameron, han-solo, kylo-ren and droids, such as c-3po and bb-8, as well as ships, both regular-sized (which can only be used in certain-misisons), and miniaturized.
in addition to adapting the-film, the-game also bridged the-gap between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens, with lucasfilm allowing for creative-freedom in the-additional-content that will explore the-characters'-backstories.
there is also a-prologue that depicts the-battle of endor, the-defeat of emperor-palpatine, and the-destruction of the-death-star-ii at the-end of return of the-jedi.
the-game was later leaked by several-retailers, before the-game official announcement on 2-february 2016.
players who purchase the-game's-deluxe-edition will receive a-season-pass to the-game and a-lego-minifigure of finn, while players of the-playstation 3 and playstation-4-versions received additional-downloadable-content, including a-character-pack and a-bonus-level, titled the "droid character pack" and the "phantom limb level pack" respectively.
the-game was released for microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, xbox 360, xbox one, nintendo-3ds and wii-u on 28-june 2016.
the-game featured the-voice acting of daisy-ridley, oscar-isaac, john-boyega, adam-driver, carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, anthony-daniels, domhnall-gleeson, gwendoline-christie and max-von-sydow reprising gwendoline-christie and max-von-sydow roles from the force awakens, as well as bill-kipsang-rotich as nien-nunb, christian-simpson as c'ai-threnalli and tom-kane reprising his-role as admiral-ackbar from various-star-wars-video-games.
archival-recordings from the-film also serve as the-game's-dialogue.
the-game received mostly-positive-reviews.
game-informer awarded it 8.5 out of 10, saying "a-blast for star-wars and lego-fans alike.
makemake has one-moon, discovered in april 2016.
as of august 2020, 309-asteroid-moons and 119-trans-neptunian-moons (including those of pluto and haumea) had been discovered.
list of black holes list of dwarf planets list of galaxies list of iau designated constellations
list of largest cosmic structures list of multiplanetary systems list of solar-system objects by size list of solar-system objects most distant from the sun lists of astronomical-objects
ahead of the-series it was confirmed that three-new-cast-members had joined the-show, ant-kennedy, louis-shaw, and former-the-x-factor-and-celebrity-big-brother-contestant-amelia-lily.
during the-series nat-phillips made nat-phillips final appearance.
marvel-comics launched an-eponymous-series in 1977 which began with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-film and ran for 107-issues, included an-adaptation of the empire strikes back.
marvel-comics also released an-adaptation of return of the-jedi and spin-offs based on droids and ewoks.
marvel-comics published the-limited-series-dark-empire in 1991, and ultimately produced over-100-star-wars-titles, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing: rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010), as well as manga-adaptations of the-original-film-trilogy and the-1999-prequel the-phantom-menace.
the-walt-disney-company acquired marvel in 2009 and lucasfilm in 2012, and the-star-wars-comics-license returned to marvel in 2015.
an-eponymous-series by marvel-comics began in 1977 with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-original-film and ran for 107-issues and three-annuals until 1986, featuring stories set between the-original-trilogy-films, as well as adaptations of the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
following the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, in january 2014, the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015 (disney having previously purchased marvel-entertainment and the marvel-comics brand and publishing in 2009).
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-majority of the-star-wars expanded universe as legends, only keeping the-theatrical-skywalker-saga and the-2008-clone-wars-theatrical-film-and-television-series as canon.
lee initially declined to consider such-a-proposal until the-film was completed, and was only persuaded otherwise in a-second-meeting arranged by roy-thomas, who wanted to edit the-series.
since movie-tie-in-comics rarely sold well at that-time, lee negotiated a-publishing-arrangement which gave no-royalties to lucasfilm until sales exceeded 100,000.
thomas and artist-howard-chaykin adapted the-events of the-original-film in issues #1–6 of star-wars, with the-first-issue released for sale on april 12, 1977.
the-series began featuring original-stories with issue #7 (january 1978).
writer-archie-goodwin and artist-carmine-infantino took over the-series as of #11 (may 1978).
the-series was one of the-industry's-top-selling-titles in 1979 and 1980.
back-weekly from issue #118 in may 1980, and then became a-monthly-title from issue #140 in november 1980, reverting to the-title star-wars with issue #159 in july 1982.
the monthly comic ran until issue #171 in july 1983, when the-numbering was reset at #1 for return of the-jedi-weekly, which was the-first-time the-u.k.-comic had been printed in color.
marvel's-adaptation of return of the-jedi (october 1983 – january 1984) appeared in a-separate,-eponymous-four-issue-limited-series as well as in marvel super special #27 and in a-mass-market-paperback.
in 1978, pendulum-press, under pendulum-press educational series contemporary-motivators, also published a-31-page-loose-adaptation of star-wars by linda-a.-cadrain and charles-nicholas.
from october 1980 to february 1981, goodwin and alcala adapted brian-daley's-han-solo at stars'-end (1979).in 1991, russ-cochran published a-2500-copy-limited-run of a-three-volume-hardcover-boxset of all of goodwin and williamson's-star-wars-comic-strips from 1981 to 1984, signed by both-creators, and featuring new-cover-illustrations by the latter.
blackthorne-publishing released a-three-issue-series called star wars 3d from december 1987 to february 1988.
dark-horse also published miniseries adapting episode-i: the-phantom-menace, episode-ii: attack of the-clones, episode-iii: revenge of the-sith .
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after, in between, and before the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing:-rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), the mostly non-canonical tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010) =====
x-wing-–-rogue-squadron follows x-wing-–-rogue-squadron beginning about one year after the-events of return of the-jedi.
x-wing – rogue-leader is a-three-part-comic-book-series set approximately one week after the-end of return of the-jedi.
shadows of the-empire ===== =====
the-crimson-empire-trilogy follows kir-kanos, one of palpatine's-imperial-guards, beginning about seven years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
last-stand on ord-mantell is a-three-part-comics-series written by ryder-windham, published by dark-horse-comics between december 2000 and march 2001.
the-story features qui-gon-jinn and obi-wan-kenobi five years before episode i – the-phantom-menace.
knights of the-old-republic and the-old-republic =====
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars:
the-old-republic are series set around the-events of the-game-series of the-same-name, exploring the-old-republic backstory.
the-clone-wars ===== =====
star-wars: agent of the-empire is a-series set a few years before episode-iv – a-new-hope, and focusing on an-imperial-intelligence-agent named jahan cross.
volume 1: iron-eclipse (collects star-wars: agent of the-empire –
1–5,-128-pages, october 2012
published by dark-horse-comics, the-series was set in the-new-jedi-order-era and depict the-events of the-yuuzhan-vong-war over 16-issues, plus a-prologue-issue.
dark-times, is a-series set in the-years after episode iii – revenge of the-sith, and showing former-characters from star-wars: republic after order 66.star-wars: knight-errant, a-series set 1,000 years before the-phantom-menace, and dealing with a-lone-jedi's-war against the-sith.
darth-vader, a-series set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, and showing how darth-vader is dealing with darth-vader past as anakin-skywalker.
star-wars: dawn of the-jedi, a-series set thousands of years before episode i – the-phantom-menace, and showing the-origins of the-jedi and the-sith.
after knights of the-old-republic and legacy ended in 2010, instead of publishing ongoing-series, dark-horse began publishing a-"series of miniseries", including:
the-story is set during the-end of the-clone-wars, approximately one year before the-events of revenge of the-sith (and 20 years before the-events of a-new-hope).
while non-canonical to the-expanded-universe, star-wars-infinities shows alternate-storylines for the-original-trilogy-films, and visionaries featured stories by artists who worked on revenge of the-sith.
adapted by j.-w.-rinzler, dark-horse released the-original-film as an-eight-part-comic-book-series beginning in september 2013.
the-series received mostly-positive-reviews.
return to marvel (2015–present) ===
following the-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, the-walt-disney-company was announced in january 2014 that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015.
meanwhile, with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.early reports in may 2014 suggested that marvel would announce two new ongoing star-wars comic series at the-san-diego-comic-con.
featuring x-wing-fighter-pilot-poe-dameron introduced in the force awakens, the-ongoing-series star-wars debuted on april 6, 2016.
in august 2019, marvel announced that the-main-star-wars-series that started in 2015, which has narratively caught up to the-timeframe of the-events of the empire strikes back, would end in november 2019 with issue #75.
a-56-page-one-shot called star wars: empire ascendant, written by soule, greg-pak, simon-spurrier, and ethan-sacks, was released in december 2019 to wrap up the-series.
at new-york-comic-con in october 2019, lucasfilm and marvel announced the-main-star-wars-title would relaunch with a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020.
written by soule, the-flagship-series will explore the-time between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
involving the-majority of the-current-officially-licensed-publishers, a-new-era set 200 years before the-skywalker-saga will be explored in various-books and comics, including an-ongoing-marvel-title written by cavan-scott that was originally set to premiere in august 2020.
star-wars (2015) ======
star-wars (2020) ====== ======
dark-lord of the-sith ====== ======
both-the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics ended the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics runs in 2018, in september and december respectively.
adaptations of both-the-last-jedi and solo: a-star-wars-story were released, and the-timeframe of solo was explored further in the-beckett-one-shot and in limited-series featuring young-lando (double or nothing) and han's-time in the-empire (imperial-cadet).
marvel announced in october 2018 that a-five-issue, wendig penned miniseries, star-wars: shadow of vader, would be released starting in january 2019.
the-series would be an-anthology told from the-perspectives of those who had encountered darth-vader.
in december 2018, a new miniseries with a-similar-premise, star wars: vader – dark-visions, was announced to be written by dennis-hopeless with art from paolo-villanelli and brian-level and was launched in march 2019.for 2019, marvel announced a-number of new-limited-series.
in may 2019, a-one-shot by writer-matthew-rosenberg and various-artists called star-wars #108 will pick up the-story of the original marvel star-wars comic run that ended in 1986.in-connection with the-forthcoming-video-game star-wars jedi:
the-rise of kylo-ren premiered on december 16, 2019.
age of star-wars maxiseries ====
at san-diego-comic-con 2018, marvel announced age of star-wars, a-27-issue-maxiseries starting in december 2018 that would span all-three-eras of the star-wars saga.
age of republic by writer-jody-houser will focus on the-time of the galactic republic and the-clone-wars during the-prequel-trilogy-era; star-wars: age of rebellion by writer-greg-pak will focus on the-galactic-civil-war between the-empire and the-rebel-alliance during the-original-trilogy-era; and star-wars:
in mid-2014, marvel stated that marvel would publish collected-volumes of past-star-wars-comics, beginning with volume 1 of star-wars: the original marvel years in january 2015, and volume 1 of star-wars legends epic collection: the-empire in april 2015, which reprinted dark horse's star-wars comics.
in december 2019, marvel reprinted the-first-issue of the-1977-series as star wars #1 – facsimile-edition.
star-wars was released in april and may 2019, celebrating marvel's-80th-anniversary.
a second collection of true-believers: star-wars-titles was released in december 2019.
in september 2017, idw-publishing debuted star-wars-adventures, an-anthology-series published as part of the-"journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi"-publishing-program.
in november 2018, idw released star-wars-adventures: destroyer down.
this-three-issue-miniseries reprinted the-previously-released-loot-crate special from december 2017.
list of star-wars-comic-books, an-in-universe-"chronological"-list of comics-star-wars (uk-comics), a-british-publication which reprints some of the dark horse comics-star-wars (manga) ==
star-wars (marvel) at the grand comics database
star-wars (dark-horse) at the grand comics database star-wars (1977–1986-marvel-comics) at the-comic-book-db (archived from the original)
star-wars (2015–present-marvel-comics) at the-comic-book-db (archived from the original)
archived from the-original on october 30, 2017.
ceres ==== was classified as a-dwarf-planet in 2006 when the-definition of a-planet was created.
jupiter-trojans are located in either of jupiter's-l4 or l5-points (gravitationally-stable-regions leading and trailing a-planet in its-orbit); the-term trojan is also used for small-bodies in any-other-planetary-or-satellite-lagrange-point.
voyager 2 is reported to have crossed the-heliopause in august 2012.the shape and form of the-outer-edge of the-heliosphere is likely affected by the-fluid-dynamics of interactions with the-interstellar-medium as well as solar-magnetic-fields prevailing to the-south, e.g. voyager 2 is bluntly shaped with the-northern-hemisphere extending 9-au farther than the-southern hemisphere.
lower-estimates for the-radius of the-oort-cloud, by contrast, do not place the-oort-cloud farther than 50,000-au.
slovak: 4 september italian: 4-september-polish: 4 september, 7-february, 27 january
legend of dragoon-chairman rose, a character from the-game pokémon-sword and shield-laterose, known as simply rose, a-fictional-character from redwall
the last of the-jedi is a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008.
a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008 is set in the-fictional-star-wars-legends (formerly known as the-star-wars-expanded-universe and discarded from the-canon in 2014), the-series is set in the-time-period between the-end of star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and a few years prior to episode-iv – a-new-hope.
a-series of young-adult-science-fiction-novels written by jude-watson from 2005 to 2008 follows the-life of obi-wan-kenobi, following the-events of revenge of the-sith until he finds ex-padawan-ferus-olin.
the-remainder of the-series focuses on a-small-band of surviving-jedi.
a few months after the-events in revenge of the-sith, obi-wan-kenobi finds obi-wan-kenobi settling into obi-wan-kenobi exile on tatooine.
as far as emperor-palpatine is concerned, the-jedi are all but extinct.
now ferus-olin must return to redeem ferus-olin—and save the-future of the-jedi-order.
the-empire now controls the-temple and everything inside...
the-empire won't be able to hold ferus for long—not when the-empire has a-friend on the-inside.
ferus's-quest is going to take ferus to the-planet of naboo, where a secret vital to the-survival of the-jedi and the-entire-galaxy is being kept…and is in danger of being revealed.
this-book was released in august 2006.
return of the-dark-side (2006) ===
against the-empire (2007) ===
some go undercover, trying to fight the-empire from the-inside, and others watch and wait.
for ferus-olin, hatred for the-empire is personal.
star-wars-author-george-lucas included a-planet called alderaan in early-treatments; in the-star-wars (1973), alderaan is a-city-planet and the-capital-planet of the-galaxy (prefiguring the-planet-coruscant which later featured in the-films).
a-planet described in lucas's-draft-script as being "under siege by the-imperial-legions of alderaan" and which is later destroyed is named as ogana-major.
lucas continued to hone lucas script, aided by screenwriters-willard-huyck and gloria-katz; names of planets and characters were revised and the-narrative was improved, and by the-fourth-draft, scenes on the-imperial-capital-planet had been moved to a-space-station called the death star and the peaceful world destroyed by the-empire had taken the-name alderaan.
the on-screen depictions of alderaan in the-star-wars-films are scant; the-imperial-capital-planet is seen momentarily in star-wars (1977) prior to the-imperial-capital-planet destruction, and in revenge of the-sith (2005) a-short-scene shows a-city amid a-snow-covered,-mountainous-landscape.
it is later shown that the-planet has been reduced to a-cloud of asteroids as the millennium falcon spaceship attempts to visit the-planet.
the-destruction of alderaan meant that it was not depicted in subsequent-star-wars-films until the-series of prequel-films was produced.
the-planet made the-planet first on-screen appearance since 1977 in episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005), appearing briefly at the-end of the-film.
the-planet is not featured in the-2016-film rogue-one, but the-character bail-organa makes an-appearance, stating that the-character bail-organa will return to alderaan to wait for the-character bail-organa daughter, leia, to bring the-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi.
in an-episode of the-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars entitled "assassin", ahsoka-tano has premonitions of padmé's-death on alderaan.
in star-wars #33 (2017), leia tells luke that sometimes leia can see alderaan among the-stars as, from certain-perspectives in the-galaxy, alderaan light has not ceased to emit.
the-1981-npr/bbc--radio-drama-adaptation of star-wars features scenes set on alderaan, in which princess-leia discusses her-mission to acquire the death star plans from agents of the-rebel-alliance with her-father, bail-organa (prestor-organa).
the-planet appears more substantially in star-wars-reference-guides to fictional-locations.
the-planet has no-ocean, but has a-semi-frozen-polar-sea, and thousands of lakes and rivers.
the-planet is rich in biodiversity, populated by a-wide-variety of flora and fauna, such as the-nerf and the-thranta.
the-planet is evidenced by a-number of cities, built to harmonize with the-natural-environment such as on canyon-walls, on stilts along the-shoreline or under the-polar-ice.
the-alderaanian-people value arts and education highly, and place high-importance on the-alderaanian-people participation in the galactic (later-imperial) senate and the-promotion of peace through demilitarization.
list of star-wars-planets and moons
galactic-battlegrounds was released on november 11, 2001.
the-player starts the-game with a-command-center, a-scout, and three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) for whichever of the-six-original-factions three-workers (in a-normal-random-map-game) choose.
carbon is used in place of wood in age of empires 2 for buildings and artillery.
it is the-most-directly-powerful-unit in the-game (not including cheats.)
the-bonus-missions depict the-empire's-hostile-takeover of bespin and an-alternate-retelling of the-battle of endor where the-empire routs the-ewoks.
the-empire strikes back.
the-jedi-council sends shen-jon to the-planet along with shen-jon new padawan,
the-wreckage of a-decimator found on the-planet reveals the-usage of stolen-republic-technology.
shen-jon-and-reath-head to the-planet and destroy a-trade-federation-mining-camp on krant's-moon, creating a-staging-area for the-invasion of krant.
in the-united-states, galactic-battlegrounds sold 225,000-copies and earned $9.8 million by august 2006, after 225,000-copies release in november 2001.
combined-sales of all-versions and expansions of galactic-battlegrounds reached 480,000-units in the-united-states by august 2006.star
gamerankings gave the-game a-score of 77.33%, while metacritic gave gamerankings 75 out of 100.
gamespot gave the-game an-8.2/10, calling an-8.2/10 "perfect for a-generation of gamers raised on star-wars".
however, brian-gee of game-revolution gave the-game a-"c" and said that a-"c" "doesn't feel very-star-wars".
carla-harker reviewed the-pc-version of the-game for next-generation, rating it four-stars out of five, and stated that "age of empires and star-wars?
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (often-abbreviated-kotor) is a-role-playing-video-game set in the star-wars universe.
developed by bioware and published by lucasarts, a-role-playing-video-game set in the-star-wars-universe was released for the-xbox on july 19, 2003, and for microsoft-windows on november 19, 2003.
the-story of knights of the-old-republic takes place almost 4,000 years before the-formation of the-galactic-empire, where darth-malak, a-dark-lord of the-sith, has unleashed a-sith-armada against the-galactic-republic.
the-game was directed by casey-hudson, designed by james-ohlen, and written by drew-karpyshyn.
announced in 2000, the-game was delayed several times before the-game release in july 2003.
the-game received critical-acclaim upon release, with critics applauding the-game's characters, story, and sound.
a-sequel, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
players choose from three-basic-character-classes (scout, soldier or scoundrel) at the-beginning of the-game and later choose from three-jedi-subclasses (guardian, sentinel or consular).
the-player can also engage in a-card-game known as pazaak, which is similar to the-game of blackjack, to gamble money.
knights of the-old-republic takes place approximately 4,000 years before the-rise of the-galactic-empire, and covers the-era following the-conclusion of the-star-wars:
the-backstory of the-game involves the-mandalorian-warrior-society invading the-galactic-republic in a-pan-galactic-conflict known as the-mandalorian-wars, essentially to test the-mandalorian-warrior-society prowess.
the-jedi were hesitant to get involved, but a-pair of renegade-jedi-knights, revan and malak, led a-group to war anyway, leading the-galactic-republic to victory.
malak, revan's-apprentice, eventually succeeded his-former-master as dark-lord of the-sith after revan was seemingly killed in an-ambush by the-jedi.
malak's-aggression has left the-jedi the-jedi scattered and vulnerable; many-jedi-knights have fallen in battle, and others have sworn allegiance to malak.
the-game opens with the-player's-character—the-player can choose a-face and be male or female (canonically male)—awakening aboard a-republic-ship, the-endar-spire, which is under attack by malak's-forces over the-city-world of taris.
on the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills darth-malak, takes control of the-star-forge for the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills malak, takes control of the-star-forge for themselves, and reclaims their-title as dark-lord of the-sith, and reclaims the-dark-side-route, the-player-allies with bastila, overthrows and kills malak, takes control of the-star-forge for themselves, and reclaims their-title as dark-lord of the-sith title as dark-lord of the-sith.
several of these-characters, including canderous-ordo, hk-47, and t3-m4, also appear in the-sequel, star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
action takes place on the-planets
a-space-station near yavin is a-playable-location in the-pc, mac-os-x, and mobile-versions of the-game and is available to xbox-players via download from xbox live.
the-game was officially unveiled as star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at e3 2001.
at this-point, the-game had been in development for around-six-months.
preproduction started in 2000, but the-discussions started back in 1999," lucasarts'-mike-gallo said, "the-first-actual-e-mails were in october or november of '99.
the-decision to set the-game four thousand years before star-wars:
the-phantom-menace was one of the-first-details about the-game made known.
bioware chose to set the-game four thousand years before the-films as bioware gave the-films greater-creative-freedom.
there were good-suggestions made and they made the-game better, so we were happy to do they.
[for knights of the-old-republic], dramatically, but even if it's 60 percent smaller, then it's still 100-hours.
the-developers intended to make the-game have more-open-ended-gameplay.
lucasarts and bioware settled on developing knights of the-old-republic for the-pc and xbox.
bioware had previously developed mdk2 for the-dreamcast and playstation 2.
this made it difficult to predict how well the-game would run.
the-game uses the-odyssey-engine, based on the-aurora-engine (previously developed by bioware for use in neverwinter-nights) but completely rewritten for knights of the-old-republic.
the-game was highly detailed for the-game time:
knights of the-old-republic contains three-hundred-different-characters and fifteen-thousand-lines of speech.
fortunately, with a-game this size, it's easy to have an-actor play a-few-different-characters and scatter those-parts throughout the-game
a-game the-size of knights of the-old-republic would typically take seven-weeks to record;
actors were recorded one at a-time, as the-non-linear-nature of the-game meant it was too complicated and expensive to record more-than-one-actor at a-time.
soule was unable to write a-full-orchestral-score for knights of the-old-republic due to technical-limitations: "at the-time we only had an-8-megabit per second-midi-system.
when announced at e3 2001, knights of the-old-republic was initially scheduled for a-late-2002-release.
in august 2002 knights of the-old-republic was announced on the-game's-forums that a-late-2002-release had been delayed: the-xbox-version was to be released in spring 2003 and the pc version in summer 2003.
a-further-delay was announced in january 2003, with both-versions of the-game expected to be released in fall 2003.
the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic went gold on july 9, 2003, with a-release-date of july 15.
release, making knights of the-old-republic the fastest-selling xbox title at the-time of its-release.
the-pc-version of the-game went gold on november 11, 2003, and was released on november 18.
the-pc-version of the-game was re-released as part of the-star-wars:
the-game was released for the-ipad on may 30, 2013.
the-game was released as drm-free-download on gog.com in october 2014.the-game was also launched on android's-google-play-store on december 22, 2014.in-october 2017, microsoft made the-xbox-one-console backward compatible with the-ipadxbox , as part of a-13-game-curated-catalogue.
both-eurogamer and jason-schreier have stated that a-remake of knights of the-old-republic is in development at aspyr as of april 2021.
after its-release on july 15, 2003, the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic sold out within four-days on shelves, which amounted to 250,000-sales during that-period.
this made the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic the-console's-fastest-ever-seller at the-time of the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the-old-republic launch.
the-game ultimately sold 270,000-copies in the-first-xbox-shipment of knights of the old republic initial two weeks and was ranked by the-npd-group as the-#2-best-selling-console-game of the-npd-group debut month across all-platforms.
it fell to the-8th-position on npd's-sales-chart for august and was absent by september.
in the-united-states alone, the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic sold 1.3-million-copies and earned $44 million by july 2006.
the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic also received a-"silver"-sales-award from the-entertainment-and-leisure-software-publishers-association, indicating sales of at-least-100,000-copies in the-united-states alone.
following the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic-launch in november 2003, the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic became the-third-best-selling-computer-title of the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic debut-week, according to npd.
although dropped out of npd's-weekly-top 10 by third week, claimed sixth-place in computer-game-sales for november overall, and ninth for december.
returned to the-weekly-top 10 during the december 28 – january 3 period but was absent again on the-next-week's-chart.
by august 2006, the-computer-version had sold 470,000-copies and earned $14.7 million in the-united-states alone.
edge ranked edge as the-country's-32nd-best-selling-computer-game released between january 2000 and august 2006.total sales of the-game's-xbox-and-computer-releases surpassed 2-million-copies by february 2005 and 2.5 million by may and reached nearly 3 million by march 2006.
as of 2007, knights of the-old-republic had sold 3.2-million-units.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic the-old-republic received "universal-acclaim" according to-review aggregator-metacritic, and won numerous-awards, including game-developers-choice-awards'-2004-game of the-year, bafta-games-awards'-best-xbox-game of the-year, and interactive-achievement-awards for best-console-rpg and best-computer-rpg.
gamespot named gamespot the best xbox game of july 2003, and best-computer-game of november 2003.knights of the-old-republic has seen success as the-game of the-year from many-sources including ign, computer-gaming-world, pc-gamer, gmr, the-game-developers-choice-awards, xbox-magazine, and g4.
in total, the-game has won over-40-game of the-year-awards from various-publications.
in 2007, ign listed it at #27 on it list of the-top-100-games of all-time.
in 2010, ign placed the-game at #3 on its-best-games of the-decade (2000–2009), beaten by shadow of the-colossus and half-life 2.at
the-game is also part of the-xbox-platinum-series/classics for sales in excess of 1-million-units.
the-los-angeles-times listed knights of the-old-republic as one of the-most-influential-works of the-star-wars-expanded-universe.
in november 2012, time named it one of the-100-greatest-video-games of all-time.
in early 2017, plot-elements from the-game were referenced in the-animated-tv-series star-wars-rebels such as the-mandalorian-wars and the-ancient-sith-planet-malachor.
star-wars but this was cut though a-deleted-scene of this does exist.
in 2019, kathleen-kennedy stated that lucasfilm was looking into developing movies or television-series in the-knights of the-old-republic-era, but that no-plans had yet been made.
list of star-wars-video-games
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at starwars.com star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at bioware star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at imdb star-wars: knights of the-old-republic at mobygames star-wars: knights of the-old-republic on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki
venus thus became, until the-early-1960s, a place for science-fiction-writers to place all-manner of unusual-life-forms, from quasi-dinosaurs to intelligent-carnivorous-plants, and where hostile-interactions with venusian natives were reminiscent of european-colonial-projects in africa and asia (see venus in fiction).
in other-works, the-planet is the-center-stage, the-primary-scene of events, and particular-attention is paid to its-environment and any-culture that may exist there.
in some-stories, a-planet is mainly considered as an-object in space: the-interest of the-fiction depends upon the-fiction astronomical characteristics, such as the-fiction mass, the-fiction geological composition, the-fiction atmosphere, how-many-moons the-fiction has and
in other-stories, a-planet is considered as a-world or setting.
while some-authors choose to treat a-planet in depth, considering a-planet to have a-wide-diversity of geography, climate, politics and culture, others prefer to characterize others planets by some-single-global-characteristic.
such-stereotypes include: the-planet covered by a-single-city; the-planet whose-surface is entirely-desert; the-planet covered by ocean, with no-landmasses; the-planet on which it is perpetually winter; the-planet that is self-aware; and the-planet which has been artificially constructed.
list of uplift-universe-planets "vorkosiverse" (mcmaster-bujold) --planets in the-vorkosigan-saga's-common-fictional-universe
dc-comics-planets, list of locations of the-dc-universe#planetary-systems-marvel-comics – features of the marvel universe#planets ===
andromeda – list of andromeda star systems
star-wars – category:
star-wars-planets, list of star-wars-planets and moons stargate – list of stargate planets
shadow-raiders – list of shadow-raiders planets
mustafar-scenes take place in star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
excalbia is a-planet with a-mostly-molten-lava-surface, featured in star-trek:
silicon-based-beings native to the-planet (excalbians) create a-habitable-earthlike-area on the-surface.
in bioware's-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, manaan is an-ocean-world inhabited by the-amphibian-selkath and source of the-healing-substance kolto.
stanisław-lem's-solaris is a-planet entirely covered by a-sentient-ocean.
jack-vance's-the-blue-world takes place on a-planet entirely covered by ocean.
the-planet was settled by colonists from the-earth in the-28th-century, who created a-utopian-culture.
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the earththe earth.
alpha, a-planet orbiting alpha centauri in foundation and earth by isaac-asimov, settled by remnants of the-population of the dying earth
hal-clement's-last-novel noise depicts a-planet whose-ocean is megametres deep.
subnautica is a-survival-game that takes place on an-ocean-planet named 4546b. much of the-planet
is a-deep-watered-ecological-deadzone supporting only-planktonic-lifeforms; the-setting of the-game takes place on the-crater-rim of a-dormant,-underwater-volcano that is able to support one of the-only-concentrations of diverse-life on the-planet.
a-planet in the-frank-herbert-novel the-godmakers, where all-the-religions of the-universe co-exist with no-conflict, under the-ecumenical-truce.
athena — a-planet in tom-godwin's-space-prison (aka-the-survivors) and the-space-barbarians, claimed by the-gern-empire and colonized by terran-slave-labor before being liberated by the-ragnarokans.
azeroth --the-main-setting for the-video-games world of warcraft, a-planet inhabited by numerous-sapient-creatures, such as humans, orcs, or dragons.
ballybran — a-planet in anne-mccaffrey's-crystal-singer-series.
belzagor — a-planet colonized by earth, whose-natives are the-elephant-like-nildoror, in downward to the earth by robert-silverberg.
castiana – a-planet from stargate-sg-1, known by the-ancients as taoth-vaclarush, was an-ancient-city that could hold the-key to finding the-sangreal.
chiron — a-planet orbiting the-star-alpha-centauri in the-computer-game sid-meier's-alpha-centauri.
a-planet notable for cyteen — cloning-research, from c.-j.-cherryh's-alliance-union-universe-novels.
death-wind – a-planet featured in the-first-f-zero-game, named for its-endless-windstorms.
the-planet in c.-j.-cherryh's-novel-downbelow-station and home of the-hisa.
emm luther – a-planet with a-single-continent, ruled by a-theocratic-government, in the-novel-night walk by bob-shaw.
a-planet in peter-f.-hamilton's-commonwealth-saga which has been sterilized by a-solar-flare and is characterized by a-triangle of stratospheric-mountains.
a-planet of the-star-tau-ceti in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star-tau-ceti in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet circling proxima-centauri, home of the-hostile-aliens called furons in the-video-game destroy all-humans!.
a-planet sent out of its-orbit by spindizzys in james-blish's-novels earthman come home (1955) and
helghan — a-planet of alpha-centauri with a-very-hostile-environment in the-killzone-video-game-series.
a-planet orbiting a-binary-star in the-trilogy of the-same-name by brian-aldiss.
a-planet in the-yonmaran-system.
one of a-planet in the-yonmaran-system-moons, vieneo is the-setting of rise:
the-vieneo-province-ireta — a-planet in anne-mccaffrey's-planet-pirates-series, inhabited by both-people and dinosaurs, and so also called dinosaur planet – the-name of the-novel in which it first appears.
ishtar — a-planet in orbit around-three-suns (a-yellow-dwarf, red-dwarf, and a-red-giant) whose-northern-hemisphere undergoes catastrophic-heating every thousand years as it draws near to one of them.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by an-intelligent-species resembling a-cross between an-elephant and a-dachshund in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
iszm — a-planet in jack-vance's-novel the-houses of iszm, a-world on which bioengineering of plants is the-dominant-technology-form (as opposed to mechanical-engineering on earth).
a-desert-planet in the-game homeworld, destroyed by an-enemy-race after space-travel is developed.
kobol — a-planet in the-battlestar-galactica-universe.
a-planet of the-star tau-ceti inhabited by warlike-humanoids, the-main-setting of l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star epsilon-eridani inhabited by intelligent-dinosauroids and earth-colonists in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
—-a-planet in the-story nightfall by isaac-asimov, in a-globular-cluster, and in a-system with six-suns.
the-orbit of the-planet is such that all-sides of the-planet are almost always illuminated by at-least-one-sun; only once in every-2,049-years is lagash oriented in such-a-way that one of the-suns is eclipsed by a-dark-companion-body.
in the-novel developed from the-short-story, the-planet was called kalgash.
a-planet in greg-bear's-novel-legacy, whose-continent-sized-superorganisms mimic lamarckian-evolution.
a-planet peopled by an-alien-species with a-well-developed-natural-ethics but no-form of religion, in james-blish's-novel-a-case of conscience.
or-acheron — the-planet on which the-derelict-ship and lv-426 deadly-cargo are found in the-movies alien and aliens.
mist-flow is featured in the-f-zero-gp-legend-and-f-zero-climax-games as a-planet completely covered in fog, obstructing the-field-view of the-racers.
mor-tax, a-planet orbiting a-dying-star in the-pleiades, is a-paradise-planet, the-homeworld of the-aliens invading earth.
nacre — a-planet populated primarily by fungi, including an-intelligent-variety; from piers-anthony's-novels omnivore, orn and ox.
nirn is the-name of the-planet where the-elder-scrolls-games are set in.
a-planet of the-star-lalande 21185 inhabited by humanoids organized into female-dominated-hive-societies in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by a-spacefacing-dinosauroid-species in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
pax — a-planet with sentient-plants in sue-burke's-semiosis.
a-planet that serves for much of the-setting of the-1982-french-animated-science-fiction-movie les-maîtres-du-temps (time-masters), by rené-laloux.
a-planet pelted by a-deadly-spore (called thread), capable of eating anything but rock and metal, for periods of fifty-years every-two-to-four-centuries in anne-mccaffrey's-dragonriders of pern-novels.
a-planet the-character new-rat-city offers to take the-player in the-2012-twine-game-rat-chaos.
a-planet of indeterminate-location that is the-sole-known-source of illudium-phosdex, the-"shaving-cream-atom", in the-1952-merrie-melodies-sci-fi-parody-duck-dodgers in the-24½th-century.
the-planet is largely barren on the-surface, with extensive-tunnels and advanced-technology, which has little-water, a-fact which causes its-people to attempt to invade earth using first-king-ghidorah, and later-godzilla and rodan as mind-controlled-weapons.
it is suggested at the-film's-end that the-planet still exists and that there is still a-remaining-population present there.
the-planet's-inhabitants leave the-planet behind when godzilla, mothra, and the-forces of earth successfully defeat the-forces of earth armies and monsters.
a-planet shaped like a-five-pointed-star that serves as the-main-setting of the-kirby-series.
a-planet orbiting three-stars in the-cartoon-visionaries: knights of the-magical-light.
ragnarok — a-planet in tom-godwin's-space-prison (aka-the-survivors) and the-space-barbarians.
regis-iii — a-planet populated by evolving-machines in stanisław-lem's-novel the-invincible.
a-planet from the-saturday-night-live-skit "coneheads.
a-planet with extreme-social-division between the-haves and have-nots, in bruce-sterling's-the-artificial-kid.
a-planet ruled by a-cannibal-elite in norman-spinrad's-the-men in the-jungle.
a-planet in the-video-game
seiren – a-planet where 90-percent of the-population is women.
a-planet covered by a-single-sentient-organism in the-book of that-name by stanisław-lem.
stroggos – the-planet on which the-games quake-ii and quake-iv take place.
its-tracks includes the-explosive-and-championship-circuits, the latter of which is unique as its is the-only-track in the-game where the-player can save a-ghost as well as a-replay.
tanis — destination of the-sleeper-ship elysium in the-film pandorum.
the-planet on which the computer game mercenary and targ —
the-game's-characters mistake the-planet for the-marker-home-world.
tencton — the-home-planet of extraterrestrials in the-series and movie alien-nation.
terminus is a-planet at the-edge of the-galaxy in isaac-asimov's-foundation-series, home of the-foundation (later-capital of the-foundation federation).
thalassa — a-watery-planet colonized by earth, and revisited by a-ship travelling to the-planet sagan 2 in arthur-c.-clarke's-novel
the-planet is home to a-form of ape-like-creatures which can take on a-disguise to resemble humans that typically fades after death.
the-planet is slowly being sucked into a-black-hole, which forced their-species to attempt to conquer earth by the-use of a-mechanical-doppelganger of godzilla; mechagodzilla.
a-planet of the-star epsilon-eridani inhabited by an-intelligent-native-avian-species and earth-colonists in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet of the-star procyon inhabited by a-species of anarchic,-bisexual-"teddy-bears" in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
a-planet orbiting arcturus in david-lindsay's-novel, a-voyage to arcturus.
a-planet populated by the-phlegmatic-tralfamadorians in the-works of kurt-vonnegut.
tranai – the-utopian-planet from robert-sheckley's-novella a-ticket to tranai, where very unorthodox methods, such as legalizing street-robbery and granting each-citizen a-right to murder a-planet populated by the-phlegmatic-tralfamadorians in the-works of kurt-vonnegut's-president, are practiced to maintain a-free-society.
trantor is a-planet in isaac-asimov's-foundation-series-and-empire-series of science-fiction-novels.
tristane – a-planet in nina-allan's-novel, the-rift-tschai — the-sole-planet of carina 4269,
a-planet lit by two-fixed-suns, both fixed relative to it, in the-little-big-adventure-computer-games.
vinea — setting of many of the-yoko-tsuno-graphic-novels vishnu — a-planet of the-star tau-ceti inhabited by two-primitive-intelligent-species, the-ape-like-romeli and the-centaur-like-dzlieri, in l.-sprague-de-camp's-viagens-interplanetarias-series.
your-turn — a-planet inhabited by vacuum-cleaner-like-aliens from 3-2-1-penguins!.
zavron –-home-planet of the zavronian aliens in the-abc-tv-sitcom ' the-neighbors'-zebes – a-planet from the-metroid-series that was once home to the-chozo-bird-people but now home to the-space-pirates.
zeelich – a-planet covered by a-thick-layer of gas-clouds above a-sea of lava in the-computer-game little-big-adventure 2.
zeist – a-planet that is the-origin of the-immortals in the-movie highlander-ii:
pendor — elf-sternberg-planet-x — an-artificial-planet in the-video-game-escape from the-planet of the-robot-monsters (1989)
a-planet with seven-layers of floating-continents.
druidia — home of the-druids, ruled by king-roland and princess-vespa in the-film spaceballs.
a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt.
all-the-inhabitants of a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt are sapient-plant-pots who are all called gordon, with the-exception of one named john.
a-planet visited in the-british-claymation-series rex the-runt is referenced frequently but is never actually seen.
a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs.
a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs is mentioned as being close to druidia, but a-planet mentioned by name in spaceballs is not actually shown on-screen.
marklar — a-planet that appeared in four-episodes of the-animated-television-series south-park, most prominently in starvin'-marvin in space, where all-nouns are replaced by the-word 'marklar'.
a-planet populated by millions of clones of arnold-rimmer who had spent six-hundred-years alone on this-planet, creating clones of arnold-rimmer in a-failed-attempt to create a-girlfriend.
a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt.
a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt is merely an-asteroid with a-lecture-hall at a-planet seen in an-episode of rex the-runt north pole, and the-inhabitants all resemble the-easter-island-statues.
in the-film spaceballs, the-spaceship-eagle-5-crash-lands on the-desert-moon of vega – after running out of fuel.
for the-roles of finn and other-new-star-wars-characters for the force awakens, director-j.-j.-abrams intentionally looked for unknown-actors, as director-j.-j.-abrams wanted audiences "to meet these-characters [in the-film] and not feel like the-film
and we'd been sort of putting john-boyega on the-top of we list right from the-beginning.
however, the-film itself revealed that "finn" is an-adopted-name, derived from his-stormtrooper-number.
in 2021 whilst promoting the-film cherry, marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland revealed marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland had also auditioned for the-role of finn before boyega was cast.
in spite of finn-training, finn becomes disillusioned with the-first-order during finn first combat mission on the-planet jakku.
alone, finn decides to search for civilization, and dons poe's-jacket in place of finn own stormtrooper armor.
when he arrives on the-planet with han and chewbacca, however, finn reveals that finn only worked in the-base's-sanitation-section.
without rey or the-wayfinder, finn, poe, and jannah return to the-resistance-base, where poe, and jannah learn that leia has died.
the-novelization of the-film reveals that finn is force-sensitive, implying this to be what him intended to tell rey.
the-novelization of the-film also states that rey believes this as well, speculating on the-kind of jedi-jedi could become.
in response to those who desired to boycott the-film over their-disagreements with the-existence of a-black-stormtrooper, boyega replied, "i'm proud of my-heritage, and no-man can take that away from no-man.
the-phantom-menace (1999), attack of the-clones (2002) and revenge of the-sith (2005), with a-bonus-level from a-new-hope (1977).
these-initial-versions were published in april 2005.
a-mac-version, developed by aspyr, was released in august 2005.
a-nintendo-gamecube-version of the-game was released on 25-october 2005.
the-background-music is the-same-music used in the-star-wars-movies, but as the-game was released before episode-iii's-soundtrack, music from the-original-trilogy (1977, 1980 and 1983) was used for that-movie's-levels.
jar-jar-binks, general-grievous and his-bodyguard have the-super-jump, which allows jar-jar-binks, general-grievous and his-bodyguard to reach obstacles that the-jedi and sith can not jump to.
droids, while unarmed, can travel through the-game without being intentionally attacked by enemy-characters.
because the-game is based on the-prequel-trilogy (1999, 2002, 2005), luke-skywalker, han-solo, lando-calrissian and other-characters from the-original-star-wars-trilogy (1977, 1980 and 1983) are not shown, and appear in the-sequel-lego-star-wars-ii:
r2-d2 are unlockable in the-game since r2-d2 appear in the-prequel trilogy also.
battles often take place in the-parking-lot between canon-good-and-canon-evil-characters, such as jedi and sith, respectively.
the-plot of the-game is a-humorous-retelling of star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, as well as a-bonus-level with the-opening of star-wars:
in 2003, traveller's-tales started the-work on the-game with assistance from lego-interactive, who would also publish the-game.
the-pc-version received a-score of 77/100 from metacritic and the-game maintained a-consistently-high-position at the-top of the-uk-charts in may 2005.lego
star-wars was the-thirteenth-best-selling-game of 2005.
in the-united-states, the-game's-game-boy-advance-version alone sold 580,000-copies and earned $17 million by august 2006.
during the-period between january 2000 and august 2006, it was the-49th-highest-selling-game launched for the-game-boy-advance, nintendo-ds or playstation-portable in that-country.
by july 2006, the-playstation-2-version of lego-star-wars had sold 1-million-copies and earned $34 million in the-united-states alone.
ign rated the-game 8 out of 10 saying, "if you're a-parent, lego star wars:
the-original-trilogy, was released in september 2006, while a-compilation, lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga, was released in november 2007 and lego-star-wars iii:
the-clone-wars was released in march 2011.
the-video-game at mobygames below is a-list of actors and actresses that are part of the-voice-cast of the-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars and the-video-game at
actors who appear by original-recordings from revenge of the-sith to represent their-characters in the-final-season-episode "shattered" include: hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, jackson as mace-windu and ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine.
list of star-wars cast members ==
the-clone-wars at the-internet-movie-database-star-wars:
the-old-republic is a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe.
developed by bioware-austin and a-supplemental-team at bioware-edmonton, a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe was announced on october 21, 2008.
a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg) based in the-star-wars-universe was released for the-microsoft-windows-platform on december 20, 2011 in north-america and part of europe.
this-story takes place in the-star-wars-universe shortly after the-establishment of a-tenuous-peace between the-re-emergent-sith-empire and the-galactic-republic.
different-classes favor different-styles of gameplay, and the-game features extensive-customization-options, fully voiced dialogue, companion-characters, and dialogue-options similar to bioware's-other-role-playing-games.
the-game had one-million-subscribers within three-days of the-game launch, making the-game the world's "fastest-growing mmo ever", however, in the-following-months the-game lost a-fair-share of the-game subscriptions, but has remained profitable.
the-game has since adopted the hybrid free-to-play business model with remaining-subscription-option.
the-game was met with positive-reception upon release and has received several-updates and expansion-packs.
several-books and comics based on the-game have been released.
the-game is estimated that the-game made $139 million in additional-revenues on top of the-subscription-income in 2013.
in an-earnings-call to investors in october 2019, electronic-arts announced that star wars:
the-old-republic was closing in on a-billion-dollars in lifetime-revenue, making the-old-republic a huge financial success based on the-reported-$200-million-development-budget.
this-story takes place in the-star-wars--fictional-universe shortly after the-establishment of a-tenuous-peace between the-re-emergent-sith-empire and the-galactic-republic, 300 years after the-events of the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-games, and more than 3,600 years before the-events in the-star-wars films.
the-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic are held responsible for the-success of the-sith during the-devastating-28-year-long-great-galactic-war (which led to the-treaty of coruscant prior to the-"cold-war"), and thus choose to relocate from coruscant to tython, where the-jedi-order had initially been founded, to seek guidance from the-force.
the-game itself is set in the-cold-war soon after these-events, with the-jedi-order and galactic-republic struggling to maintain the-jedi-order and galactic-republic control of the-core-worlds while the sith plot the-jedi-order and galactic-republic downfall and the-expansion of the-sith-empire.
bioware stated, prior to release, that the-game itself would have a-significant-focus on the-storyline.
the-old-republic –-threat of peace and star-wars:
the-old-republic – blood of the-empire
, the-purpose of which is to establish the-backstory as the-game opens and closes.
while each-class in the-old-republic favors a-certain-play-style (ranged/melee-damage, healing or support skills, or tanking), customization combined with companion-characters allow for a-class to be able to tackle many-different-situations, with or without the-support of other-player-characters, and without requiring specific-other-classes in order to move forward.
it is intended that the-game should provide more-context for characters'-missions than any-previous-mmorpg.
like many-other-mmorpgs, the-game features dungeons and raids in the-form of flashpoints and operations respectively.
the-cathar were added to the-game during patch 2.1, and is available to all-players who unlock more-playable-species through the-cartel-market.
the-release of the-expanded-"legacy"-system in april 2012 allows for species to be able to play all-classes (both-empire and republic) by unlocking that-species with an-infusion of in-game money or by levelling a-character of that-race to level 50.
the-game features a-passive-form of crafting, known as crew-skills, in which a-player's-companions carry out gathering and crafting tasks asynchronously to the-player's-adventures out in the-world.
options for some-new-companions were implemented in knights of the-fallen-empire, and expanded for some-new-and-original-companions with knights of the-eternal-empire up to marriage.
the-old-republic required a-monthly-subscription to play, following a-month of play included with the-initial-purchase.
by july 2012, the-subscriber-base fell below 1 million, prompting ea to convert the-game to free-to-play.
ea stated that 500,000-subscribers were needed to make the-game profitable saying that 500,000-subscribers were "well above"
on november 15, 2012, the free-to-play option went live on all-servers.
as of august 2014 the-game has over-one-million-monthly-players.
the-old-republic is bioware's-first-entry into the-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game (mmorpg)-market, and is the-third-star-wars-mmorpg after star-wars-galaxies, which was shut down in december 2011, the-same-month-swtor was released and clone-wars-adventures, which was shut down in march 2014.
bioware had long been interested in working on a-mmorpg, but waited until bioware had "the-right-partners, the-right-team, and the-right-i.p."-a-major-focus in the-game is on developing characters'-individual-stories and, in october 2008, bioware considered the-game to have more-story-content than all of bioware other games combined.
an-october-2008-preview noted some of the-12-full-time-writers had been working on the-old-republic for more-than-two-years at that-point.
the-game had 1-million-subscribers within three-days of the-game launch, making the-game the world's "fastest-growing mmo ever".
however, in the-following-months the-game lost a-fair-share of the-game subscriptions, but has remained profitable.
the-game has since adopted the hybrid free-to-play business model with remaining-subscription-option.
it is estimated that the-game made $139 million in additional-revenues, in addition to the-subscription-income, in 2013.the-game's-first-cinematic-trailer, "deceived", was shown at the-electronic-arts-2009-e3-press-conference on june 1, 2009.
on september 29, 2009, bioware announced that bioware would be accepting applications for testers from the-game-community.
although released in most-regions of the-world, ea have said australasia will be getting the-game at a-later-date.
however, bioware revealed that the-game would not be region or ip blocked, allowing players to purchase the-game from other-regions.
bioware-community-manager-allison-berryman said "data from this-test will be used to inform decisions about the-launch of the-game in oceanic-regions", however, bioware-community-manager-allison-berryman was unable to provide any-information in regards to the-game's launch in oceanic-regions.
on october 11, 2011, bioware announced that star-wars: the-old-republic would be released globally on december 20, 2011.
on december 21, 2011, bioware announced that an-australian-and-new-zealand-release-date had been set for march 1, 2012.
early-access to the-game was granted one week before release, on december 13, 2011, for those who had pre-ordered the-game online; access opened in "waves" based on pre-order-date.
patch (1.2) was released on april 12, 2012.
in january 2012, star-wars: the-old-republic was officially recognized by guinness-world-records as the-"largest-entertainment-voice over project ever", with over-200,000-lines of recorded-dialogue.
on april 26, 2012, bioware announced that the-game was available in the-middle-east and remaining european countries who were excluded from the-original-launch.
on july 21, 2020, the-game became available on steam.
in october 2012, bioware announced the-old-republic's-first-digital-expansion-pack, rise of the-hutt-cartel.
rise of the-hutt-cartel was released on april 14, 2013.
those who pre-ordered the-expansion prior to january 7, 2013, were allowed early-access on april 9.
in october 2013, bioware announced bioware next-expansion, which unlike bioware predecessor rise of the-hutt-cartel did not include any-story-content, however, galactic-starfighter introduced 12v12-space-based-pvp-combat on two-maps, with 2 'capture-the-flag' combat missions.
subscribers began subscribers early-access on december 3, 2013, with full-subscriber-awards if subscribers maintained an-active-subscription on november 1.
subscribers received early-access august 19, 2014, as well as access to the-exclusive-"nar-shaddaa-sky-palace"; preferred-access-players received early-access starting in september.
on october 6, bioware announced the-second-planned-expansion, entitled shadow of revan.
the-campaign raised the-level-cap to 60, and takes place on two-new-worlds: rishi, a-tropical-pirate-haven on the-edge of the-galaxy, and yavin 4 (which first appeared in the-original-star-wars-film), home of an-ancient-sith-warrior-sect called the massassi.
players who preordered before november 2, 2014, received an-experience-boost that granted twelve-times-multiplicative-experience for class-related-missions, seven days of early-access, a grand statue of revan for placement in strongholds, and a free edition of rise of the-hutt-cartel (to give to another-player).
the-expansion was released on december 9, 2014.
knights of the-fallen-empire ===
in june 2015, the-third-expansion for the-game, titled knights of the-fallen-empire, was announced at ea's-e3-2015-press-conference.
knights of the-fallen-empire features a-renewed-focus on cinematic-storytelling, as well as new-planets, new-companions, a-dynamic-story affected by player-choices and a-level-cap of 65.
the-first-nine-chapters of knights of the-fallen-empire were launched on october 27, 2015, with additional-chapters starting in early 2016.
after the-release of knights of the-fallen-empire, rise of the-hutt-cartel and shadow of revan became free for those subscribing to the-game, and access remains on the-account if a-subscription is canceled.
the-release of knights of the-fallen-empire depicts the-story of "the-outlander" - the-player-character.
knights of the-eternal-throne ====
in december 2016, knights of the-eternal-throne was released as the-fourth-expansion and sixth-major-update that coincided with the-game's-five-year-anniversary.
it continued the-story of the-outlander.
during the-expansion, developers released several-key-updates and patches that continued the-story and added new-activities for players to engage in.
in april 2019, it was announced on the-official-site that the-next-expansion, onslaught, would be released in september 2019.
in august, it was announced that the-release-date for onslaught had been moved back from september 2019 to october 22, 2019.
chronicle-books released the-art and making of star-wars: the-old-republic in november 2011, which chronicles the-creation of the-game and includes concept-artwork and interviews from the-development-team.
leading up to game's-release on december 20, bioware released music-tracks from the-game each day which were not included with the-soundtrack which came with the-collector's-edition of the-game.
razer released several-peripherals based on the-game to coincide with the-launch-date.
several-peripherals based on the-game included custom made keyboards, mice, gaming-headsets and mouse-pads.
in august 2012, lego announced plans to release two-sets based on the-game, the-sith-fury-class-interceptor and the-striker-class-starfighter.
at star-wars-celebration in 2019, kathleen-kennedy revealed that lucasfilm was in the-tentative-stages of developing an-adaptation of knights of the-old-republic.
the-story spans ten years from the-signing of the-treaty of coruscant to the-events that start the-game.
a-second-internet-comic titled blood of the-empire has been released and follows the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission.
the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission is produced by dark-horse and written by bioware's-senior-writer alexander-freed.
the-story of a-sith-apprentice on a-dangerous-secret-mission is set 25 years before the-treaty of coruscant, and offers readers a-new-perspective of the-events leading up to the-start of the-old-republic.
a-sneak-preview of the-art was released, followed by the-first-issue on april 23, 2010.
drew-karpyshyn wrote a-novel titled revan, published on november 15, 2011.
annihilation, that was released on november 13, 2012.
the-old-republic has received generally-positive-reviews from critics, with a-score of 85 on metacritic and an-84% on gamerankings.
g4tv gave a-review of 5/5 and praised the-game for "top-notch-music and voice acting" and "hundreds of hours of content".
gamespot gave the-game 8.0/10, saying "[the-old-republic] isn't the-next-step in online-role-playing-games.
gamesradar gave the-game 8/10 calling it "an extremely satisfying experience that sets the-stage for a-bright-future".
the-game has received a-9.0/10-"amazing"-rating from ign.com.
msnbc awarded star-wars: the-old-republic as game of the-year.
in 2012, the-ablegamers-foundation awarded star-wars: the-old-republic as the-ablegamers-foundation mainstream game for 2011 for being able to accommodate gamers with special-needs.
platforms: arcade, apple-ii, atari 2600, famicom, nintendo-entertainment-system, super nintendo-entertainment-system, nintendo 64, sega-master-system, sega-dreamcast, game-gear, gamecube, dos, microsoft-windows, macintosh, classic-mac-os, macos, playstation, playstation 2, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, xbox, xbox 360, xbox one, wii, wii u, game boy, game boy color, game boy advance, nintendo ds, playstation portable, ios, android, linux, stadia.
star-wars (1983–88) – arcade
star-wars (1987) –
star-wars (1991–93) – nes, game-boy, master-system, game-gear
snes re-released for: wii-virtual-console, playstation 4, playstation vita star wars arcade (1993) –
the-empire strikes back
the-empire strikes back (1982) –
the-empire strikes back (1985/88)
the-empire strikes back (1992) –
the-empire strikes back (1993) –
return of the-jedi ===
return of the-jedi –-death-star-battle (1983/84) –
return of the-jedi (1984/88) –
return of the-jedi (1994) – snes, game-boy, game-gear
re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020), xbox one (2020)
windows, playstation 2, xbox, arcade
the-clone-wars (2002) – gamecube, playstation 2, xbox-star-wars:
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ===
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005) – playstation 2, xbox, nintendo-ds, game-boy-advance , mobile-phone ==
defender of the-empire (1994) compilation:
dark-forces (1995)-dos, mac, playstation
:-star-wars-jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith (1998)
windows, mac, xbox, gamecube re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2019), playstation 4 (2019)
re-released for:-nintendo-switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020) ===
– windows, mac, dreamcast, nintendo 64, game-boy-color re-released for: nintendo switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020)
re-released for:-playstation-store (2015), playstation 4 (2019) ===
xbox, playstation 2 ===
knights of the-old-republic ===
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (
2003)-windows, xbox, mac, ios, android-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-old-republic (2011)
: rise of the-hutt-cartel (2013), galactic-starfighter (2014), galactic-strongholds (2014), shadow of revan (2014), knights of the-fallen-empire (2015), knights of the-eternal-throne (2016), and onslaught (2019) ===
pandemic-studios-star-wars: battlefront (2004) – playstation 2, windows, xbox, mac, mobile-phone-star-wars: battlefront ii (2005) – playstation 2, windows, xbox, playstation portable star wars battlefront: renegade-squadron (2007) – playstation portable
mobile-phoneea-dice-star-wars-battlefront (2015) – playstation 4, windows, xbox one
star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017) – playstation 4, windows, xbox one ===
(2008)-windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, wii, nintendo-ds,
2009) windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3 star wars:
windows, wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, ios
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels (2008) –-wii
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance (2008) –
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes (2009) –
windows, playstation 2, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii
star-wars: shadows of the-empire (1996) – nintendo 64, windows star-wars: masters of teräs-käsi (1997) –
playstation-2-star-wars: bounty-hunter (2002) – gamecube, playstation 2 re-released for: playstation 3 (2015), playstation 4 (2019)
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, stadia ===
star-wars: squadrons (2020) – windows, playstation 4, xbox one
the-empire strikes back by hankin
star-wars by stern-pinball
)-windows, mac, wii-u, xbox 360, 3ds, psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, kindle-fire, android, ios-star-wars-episode-v:
the-empire strikes back
the-clone-wars (2013)
psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, android, ios-star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (2013)
star-wars: resistance star-wars pinball:
the-clone-wars (2008)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005) –-jakks-pacific-tv
star-wars: lightsaber-combat (2005) – mobile phone star-wars trivia (2005) –
star-wars: jedi-assassin (2005) – mobile phone star-wars imperial ace 3d (2006) – mobile phone star-wars cantina (2010) –
in some-cases, lucasfilm has allowed other-video-game-franchises to do lucasfilm own star wars games, resulting in crossover-hybrid-franchises.
windows, mac, playstation 2, xbox, gamecube, nintendo ds,
windows, mac, playstation 2, xbox, xbox 360, gamecube, nintendo ds, game boy advance, playstation portable
the-clone-wars (2011): playstation 3, xbox 360, 3ds, wii, windows, mac, nintendo-ds, nintendo, playstation portable lego star wars:
windows, playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii u, mac, nintendo-3ds, playstation vita, ios
windows, playstation 4, playstation 5, xbox-one, xbox-series-x, nintendo-switch compilation(s):
windows, playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, mac, nintendo-ds, ios, androidmobile-game and web-browser lego-star-wars: the-quest for r2-d2 (2009):
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, windows-lego-indiana-jones 2:
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation portable,
star-wars (2014-2019):
list of sponsors: star wars rebels:
microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, wii-u, ios, android ===
the-sims 4: journey to batuu (2020): microsoft-windows, mac, playstation 4, xbox-one---ninth-game-pack for the-sims 4.
star-wars (2020):
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, nintendo-switch, amazon-kindle-fire, amazon-fire-tv, ios, android, oculus-rift, gear-vr---dlc for minecraft: bedrock-edition purchasable through the minecraft market place.
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-secret-weapons over normandy (2003) –
xbox, playstation 2 , pc
xbox, playstation 2-soulcalibur-iv (2008) –
however, in late 2016, all-dlc in soulcalibur-iv was removed from the-playstation-and-microsoft-stores due to licensing from the-purchase of star-wars by disney.
wii, playstation 2, nintendo ds,
return of the-jedi – ewok-adventure – atari
star-wars: battlefront-iii (2008) playstation 3, windows, xbox 360 star-wars:
star-wars 1313 (2013)
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-iii (windows, xbox)
the-force-unleashed-iii (windows, wii-u, xbox-one, playstation 4)
project-ragtag (windows, xbox-one, playstation 4) ==
it takes place during the-dark-times, when the-galactic-empire is hunting down the last of the-jedi while a-fledgling-rebellion against the-galactic-empire is emerging.
the-visual-style of the-series is inspired by the-original-star-wars-trilogy concept art by ralph-mcquarrie.
the-series features new-characters, along with some from the-original-trilogy and from the-previous-animated-series, the-clone-wars.
the-series premiered as a-one-hour-television-film, spark of rebellion, on october 3, 2014, on disney-channel prior to the-premiere of the-series on october 13 on disney-xd.
the-third-season premiered on september 24, 2016, with the-television-film, steps into shadow.
the-fourth-and-final-season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore.
the fourth and final season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore-final-episode aired on march 5, filoni served as executive-producers of season one.
the-series has been generally well-received with several-award-wins and nominations.
fourteen years after the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order and the-rise of the-galactic-empire depicted in revenge of the-sith, a-motley-group of rebels unite aboard a-freighter-starship called the ghost and begin to conduct covert-operations against the-imperial-garrison on and around the-planet-lothal and other-planets that are menaced by the-galactic-empire.
steven-blum as garazeb-"zeb"-orrelios, a-former-lasat-honor-guard-member who wants the-empire to pay for enslaving his-people.
frank-oz as yoda, the-wise-and-powerful-grand-master of the-jedi who is exiled on the-planet-dagobah.
the-first-two-episodes, titled spark of rebellion, premiered on october 3, 2014, on disney-channels worldwide and on family-channel in canada.
in australia, the series premiered on october 17 on disney-xd.
the-siege of lothal premiered on june 28, 2015, and the-second-season debuted on october 18.
in canada, the series premiered on october 19 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd.
the second season premiered on november 7, and the-show was moved to disney-channel on december 1.in
the-middle-east and africa, spark of rebellion premiered on october 11 and the-series debuted on october 18 on disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on october 10, followed the-official-season-premiere on october 17.
in southeast-asia, spark of rebellion premiered on disney-xd on october 4 and the-series officially started on november 29.
siege of lothal premiered on october 3 on disney-xd-and-disney-channel, and the-second-season was released on october 24.
in the-united-kingdom and ireland, the-series debuted on october 16 on disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on july 18, 2015, followed by the-second-season-debut on october 17.
spark of rebellion was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd in the-us at all-retailers on october 14, 2014.
one of star-wars-rebels was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd and blu-ray on september 1, 2015, in america, and in germany on september 10, 2015.
the-complete-season two of star-wars-rebels was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd and blu-ray on august 30, 2016, in north-america.
the-complete-season two of star-wars-rebels-star-wars-rebels was released on dvd and blu-ray on august 29, 2017.
the complete season four is announced to be released on dvd and blu-ray on november 15, 2018, in germany, and july 31, 2018, in north-america.
the-series is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
in the-united-kingdom, the-film was the-highest-rated-broadcast that week, with 81,000-viewers.
the-voice of freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus can also heard in the-2019-film star-wars as one of the-voices of jedi past who provide rey with encouragement to defeat emperor-palpatine.
on september 2, 2014, del-rey-books published star-wars: a-new-dawn, a-prequel-novel by john-jackson-miller telling the-story of how kanan and hera met (set about six years before the-series).
it takes place during the-events of rebels'-fourth-season.
from april 1, 2015, through march 16, 2016, marvel-comics published a-12-issue-comic-series, titled kanan, and set during the-events of the-first-season.
written by former-executive-producer of the-series greg-weisman and illustrated by pepe-larraz, jacopo-camagni and andrea-broccardo, the-story is centered on kanan having flashbacks to kanan days as a-padawan in the-jedi-temple and the-clone-wars.
additionally, several of the-characters from the-series are playable in other-games such as disney-infinity 3.0, angry-birds-star-wars-ii, roblox (as virtual-accessories and gears), lego-star-wars:
original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 18, 2015, in both-digipak-cd and digital-formats.
for the-score, john-williams received john-williams 50th oscar nomination, being nominated for the-academy-award for best-original-score, john-williams first nomination for a-star-wars-film since return of the-jedi.
john-williams won the-saturn-award for best-music, john-williams first win since revenge of the-sith.
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
the-music from the-first-two-trailers for the-film was reworked from earlier-compositions.
john-williams began working on the-score in december 2014 and by june 2015, john-williams had been through most of the-film-reels, working on a-daily-basis.
gustavo-dudamel conducted the-opening-and-end-title-music for the-film at williams'-behest.
the-last-recording-session took place on november 14, 2015.leading up to the-release of the-force
it’s just-so-good-hearing williams return to this-universe."
the-soundtrack debuted at number five on the-billboard 200-chart for the-week ending november 26, 2015, with 100,000-album-equivalent-units, of which 94,000 were pure-album-sales.
the-jedi-soundtrack has sold 206,000-copies in the-us as of april 2016.
return of the-jedi is a-1984-arcade-game by atari, inc. and the--follow-up to 1983's-star-wars-arcade-game.
the-game is included as an-unlockable-extra on star wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike for gamecube.
return of the-jedi on the-jedi february 15, 1985 issue as being the-sixth-most-successful-upright-arcade-unit of the-year.
return of the-jedi at the-killer-list of videogames return of the-jedi at the arcade history database return of the-jedi at the-gameroom-blog-star-wars: droids – the-adventures of r2-d2 and c-3po is a-1985-animated-television-series spin off from the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
it focuses on the-exploits of droids r2-d2 and c-3po between the-events of revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope.
the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with lucasfilm sister series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series
during the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with its-sister-series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series ran for one-season of 13-half-hour-episodes; an-hour-long-special-broadcast in 1986 serves as the-finale-adventures, the-droids find the-droids in the-service of successive-new-masters, and encounter minor-characters from the-original-trilogy such as boba-fett and ig-88.
the-series was retroactively placed four years after revenge of the-sith and fifteen years before the-events of a-new-hope.
" the-droids are placed in antilles'-care by bail-organa at the-end of revenge of the-sith, creating an-apparent-continuity-error.
the-series was produced by the-canadian-company nelvana for lucasfilm.
the-series in bbc-television entirety between 1986 and 1991 as part of the-children's-bbc-programming-strand.
the-series was shown twice within this-time (in 1986 and 1988 to coincide with the-full-release of the-star-wars-trilogy as well as droids on vhs).
the-series was broadcast on abc with abc sister series ewoks (as part of the-ewoks-and-droids-adventure-hour).
the-series falls into three-cycles or arcs; the-droids usually run into the-droids new-masters at the-beginning of each, and at the-end are forced to leave.
run which included a-new-hope , the-empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, planet of the-hoojibs, droid-world and return of the-jedi: the-battle of endor due to poor-reflective-sales of buena-vista's-"further-adventure"-series overseas which included mission to ord-mantell, an-ewok-adventure and ewoks: the-battle for endor.
cover of the-series were drawn by john-romita, sr.
almost-all-episodes of the-series (except "coby and the-starhunters") were released on vhs in the-1980s and 1990s, most notably the uk pal releases over four-cassettes (droids 1–3 and the-great-heep), which had the-opening-sequences and credits edited out.
on april 2, 2021, it was announced that the-entire-series would be released on disney+
several-references to the-animated-series are made in the-prequels, such as the-boonta-eve-classic in the-phantom-menace, the-planet-bogden and a-four-armed-cook in attack of the-clones, and general-grievous'-wheel-bike-design in revenge of the-sith.
star-wars: droids 1985, george-lucas, ben burtt star-wars insider #27
most of the-games in the-series are tactical-role-playing-games but several-games representing other-genres were also released.
list is divided by video-game-genre and ordered by initial-release-date.
since the-show's-debut on november 12, 2019, only-one-character has appeared in every-episode: the-protagonist and title-character, a-bounty-hunter named, "din-djarin".
the-primary-villains of the-series belong to a-remnant of the-galactic-empire, which is led by moff-gideon and includes such-agents as the-client and dr.-pershing.
a-handful of guest-characters made appearances in single-episodes, including villagers from the-planet sorgan in "chapter 4: sanctuary", a-band of mercenaries in "chapter 6: the-prisoner", and several-minor-antagonists.
the-show's-breakout-character was conceived by jon-favreau out of a-desire to explore the-mystery around yoda and the-show's-breakout-character species, and was developed in early-conversations about the-series between jon-favreau and executive-producer-dave-filoni.
operating out of the-planet nevarro, greef gives assignments to bounty-hunters and ensures everyone follows the-guild's-code.
greef later devises a-plan to kill the-mandalorian and return the-child to the-imperials, but when the-child saves the-child life, greef has a-change of heart and helps protect greef from the-empire.
a-former-indentured-servant of the-galactic-empire is living in solitude on the-planet arvala-7 when a-former-indentured-servant of the-galactic-empire encounters the-mandalorian, who comes to the-planet to find and capture the-child.
gideon reveals gideon knows secret-details about the mandalorian and gideon allies, and is the-first-character in the-series to reveal the-mandalorian's-real-name, din-djarin.
having survived the sarlacc pit boba fett ==== fell into in return of the-jedi, boba fett ====
makes boba fett ==== return in a-silent-cameo in "chapter 9:
initially demanding din to return din armor which the latter had acquired from cobb-vanth, din and fennec later aid din in battling gideon's-forces as gideon regains gideon armor in the-process.
episode-ii---attack of the-clones and voiced boba in the-2004-dvd-releases of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
in return for information later-bo-katan and the-nite-owls reluctantly agrees to help them seize a-shipment of weapons.
bo-katan is portrayed by katee-sackhoff, who previously voiced the-character in animated-form in star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels.
mayfeld is portrayed by actor-and-comedian-bill-burr, who was not a-fan of star-wars and repeatedly mocked the-franchise and mayfeld fans before he accepted the-role.
is a-togruta, former-jedi-padawan to anakin-skywalker, and whom the-mandalorian seeks out in order to return the-child to the-child species.
paz-vizsla is voiced by jon-favreau, who previously voiced a-similarly-named-mandalorian-warlord named pre vizsla on the-series star wars: the-clone-wars.
list of star-wars-characters mandalorian the-mandalorian ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (1983), forming the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas later returned to filmmaking to direct a-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii: attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
while jedi-knights can be numerous, the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') are intended to be limited to two: a-master and the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') apprentice.
the-jedi and sith prefer the-use of a-weapon called a lightsaber, a-blade of energy that can cut through virtually-any-surface and deflect energy-bolts.
the-first-entry, rogue one (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans just before episode-iv.
lucasfilm has a-number of star-wars-films in development, two of which were confirmed during disney-investor-day 2020.
the first will be a-film titled rogue squadron, which is being directed by patty-jenkins, and is scheduled for release on december 25, 2023.
in september 2019, it was announced that kathleen-kennedy and kevin-feige would collaborate to develop a-star-wars-film.
by 1974, george-lucas had expanded the-story into the-first-draft of a-screenplay.
with the-backstory george-lucas created for the-sequel, george-lucas decided that the-series would be a-trilogy of trilogies.
most of the-main-cast would return for the-two-additional-installments of the-original-trilogy, which were self-financed by lucasfilm.
star-wars was released on may 25, 1977, and first-subtitled-episode-iv:
return of the-jedi was released on may 25, 1983.
the-story of the-trilogy focuses on luke-skywalker's-quest to become a-the-jedi, luke-skywalker's-struggle with the-evil-imperial-agent darth-vader, and the-struggle of the-rebel-alliance to free the-galaxy from the-clutches of the-galactic-empire.
episode iii: revenge of the-sith, the-first-pg-13-film in the-franchise, was released on may 19, 2005.
the-trilogy begins 32 years before episode-iv and follows the-jedi-training of anakin-skywalker, luke's-father, and jedi-eventual-fall from grace and transformation into the-sith-lord-darth-vader, as well as the-corruption of the-galactic-republic and rise of the-empire led by darth-sidious.
at various-stages of development, the-sequel-trilogy was to focus on the-rebuilding of the-republic, the return of luke in a-role similar to that of obi-wan in the-original-trilogy, luke's sister (not yet determined to be leia), han, leia, r2-d2 and c-3po.
however, after beginning work on the-prequel-trilogy, lucas insisted that star-wars was meant to be a-six-part-series and that there would be no-sequel-trilogy.
in october of that-year, the-walt-disney-company agreed to buy lucasfilm and announced that episode-vii would be released in 2015.
the-force-awakens was released on december 16, 2015, episode viii:
the-last-jedi on december 13, 2017, and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker on december 18, 2019, in many-countries.
lucasfilm and kennedy have stated that the-standalone-films would be referred to as the-star-wars-anthology-series (though the-word-anthology has not been used in any of the-titles, instead carrying the-promotional-"a-star-wars-story"-subtitle).
focused on how the-rebels obtained the death star plans introduced in the-1977-film, the-first-anthology-film, rogue one: a-star-wars-story, was released on december 16, 2016, to favorable-reviews-and-box-office-success.
the first, the-mandalorian, premiered on november 12, 2019.
the-clone-wars won the-2020-webby-award for television & film in the-category-social.
the-star-wars-canon-fictional-universe spans multiple-eras, of which three are focused around each of the-film trilogies.
after orchestrating the-clone-wars between the-republic and a-separatist-confederation, palpatine exterminates the-jedi-order, overthrows the-democratic-galactic-republic, and establishes the-totalitarian-galactic-empire.
this-era was previously defined as the-age of republic in august 2019.
the-age of rebellion: the-era of the-original-trilogy, in which the-empire is fought by the-rebel-alliance in a-galactic-civil-war that spans several-years, climaxing with the-death of the-emperor and eventually resulting in the-fall of the-empire.
the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire includes the-mandalorian and the-era after the-original-trilogy, set during the-formative-years of the-new-republic following the-fall of the-empire spin-off series, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic, and ahsoka.
this-era was previously defined as the-age of resistance in august 2019.the
expanded universe of spin-off-media depicts different-levels of continuity, which were deemed non-canonical and rebranded as legends on april 25, 2014, to make most-subsequent-works align to the-sequel-trilogy-films, the clone wars film, and television series.
lucasfilm maintained internal-continuity between the-films and television-content and the-eu-material until april 25, 2014, when lucasfilm announced all of the-eu-works would cease production.
the-old-republic the-only-legends-material to still be produced.
the-star-wars-canon was subsequently restructured to only include the-existing-six-feature-films, the-animated-film the-clone-wars (2008), and
all-future-projects and creative-developments across all-types of media would be overseen and coordinated by the-story-group, announced as a-division of lucasfilm created to maintain continuity and a-cohesive-vision on the-storytelling of the-franchise.
star-wars in print predates the-release of the-first-film, with the-december-1976-novelization of star-wars, initially subtitled "from the-adventures of luke-skywalker".
the-novelizations of the empire strikes back (1980) by donald-f.-glut and return of the-jedi (1983) by james-kahn followed, as well as the-han-solo-adventures-trilogy (1979–1980) by brian-daley, and the-adventures of lando-calrissian-trilogy (1983) by l.-neil-smith.
the-first-novel, heir to the-empire, reached #1 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list, and the-series finds luke, leia, and han facing off against tactical-genius-thrawn, who is plotting to retake the-galaxy for the-empire.
steve-perry's-shadows of the-empire (1996), set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, was part of a-multimedia-campaign that included a-comic-book-series and video-game.
although no longer canon, the-story is paralleled in the force awakens with han and leia's-son ben-solo, who has become the-dark-kylo-ren.
the last of the-jedi (2005–2008), set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, features obi-wan and the last few surviving the-jedi.
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing-rogue-squadron (1995–1998),-star-wars: republic (1998–2006),
star-wars: empire (2002–2006), and knights of the-old-republic (2006–2010).after-disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, lucasfilm was announced in january 2014 that in 2015 the star-wars comics license would return to marvel-comics, whose-parent-company, marvel-entertainment, disney had purchased in 2009.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
these include ongoing-titles by marvel and idw-publishing, written by cavan-scott and daniel-josé older respectively, that will both premiere in august 2020.
the-first-star-wars-audio-work is the-story of star-wars, an-lp using audio-samples from the-original-film and a-new-narration to retell the-story, released in 1977.
return of the-jedi was adapted into 6-episodes in 1996, featuring daniels.
the-empire strikes back, followed soon the year later by star-wars: jedi-arena, the-first-video-game to depict lightsaber-combat.
return of the-jedi (1984), has more-traditional-raster-graphics, while the-following-star-wars: the empire strikes back (1985) has vector-graphics.
the-empire strikes back (1992).
lucasfilm founded lucasfilm own video game company in 1982, becoming best known for adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games, but as george-lucas took more-interest in the-increasing-success of the-video-game-market, george-lucas wanted to have more-creative-control over the-games and founded george-lucas own development company, lucasarts.
in 1993, lucasarts released star-wars: x-wing, the first self-published star-wars video game and the-first-space-flight-simulator based on the-franchise.
the-series introduced kyle-katarn, who would appear in multiple-games, novels, and comics.
disney partnered with lenovo to create the-augmented-reality-video-game jedi-challenges, released in november 2017.
in august 2018, it was announced that zynga would publish free-to-play-star-wars-mobile-games.
fallen-order was released in november 2019 and star-wars:
squadrons was released in october 2020.
shadows of the-empire (1996) was a-multimedia-project set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi that included a-novel by steve-perry, a-comic-book-series, a-video-game, and action-figures.
the-force unleashed (2008–2010) was a-similar-project set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope that included a-novel, a-2008-video-game and the-sith 2010 sequel, a-graphic-novel, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and toys.
star-wars was the-first-intellectual-property to be licensed in lego-history.
star-wars features elements such as knighthood, chivalry, and jungian archetypes such as "the-shadow".
however, unlike jesus, anakin falls from grace, remaining evil as darth-vader until return of the-jedi.
political-science has been an-important-element of star-wars since the-franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a-struggle between democracy and dictatorship.
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of vader.
the-empire strikes back, was selected in 2010.
star-wars fundamentally changed the-aesthetics and narratives of hollywood-films, switching the-focus of hollywood-made-films from deep,-meaningful-stories based on dramatic-conflict, themes and irony to sprawling-special-effects-laden-blockbusters, as well as changing the-hollywood-film-industry in fundamental-ways.
the-commercial-success of star-wars created a-boom in state-of-the-art special effects in the-late-1970s.
along with jaws, star-wars started the-tradition of the-summer-blockbuster-film in the-entertainment-industry, where films open on many-screens at the-same-time and profitable-franchises are important.
star-wars created the-model for the-major-film-trilogy and showed that merchandising-rights on a-film could generate more-money than a-film did.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after.
" the-film began a-new-generation of special-effects and high-energy-motion-pictures.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
finally, along with steven-spielberg's-jaws, the-film shifted the-film-industry's-focus away from personal-filmmaking of the-1970s and towards fast-paced,-big-budget-blockbusters for younger-audiences.
some-critics have blamed star-wars and jaws for "ruining" hollywood by shifting hollywood focus from "sophisticated"-films such as the-godfather, taxi-driver, and annie-hall to films about spectacle and juvenile-fantasy, and for the-industry-shift from stand-alone, one and done films, towards blockbuster-franchises with multiple-sequels and prequels.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth".
numerous-filmmakers have been influenced by star-wars, including damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, joss-whedon, john-singleton, kevin-smith, and later star-wars directors j. j. abrams and gareth-edwards.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film inception.
in 2002, lucasfilm sponsored the first annual official star wars fan film awards, officially recognizing filmmakers and the-genre.
fan-fiction-films set in the-star-wars-universe were originally ineligible, but in 2007, lucasfilm changed the-submission-standards to allow in-universe fiction entries.
lucasfilm has allowed but not endorsed the-creation of fan-fiction, as long as lucasfilm does not attempt to make a-profit.
star-wars and philosophy.
star-wars and history.
october 2005.
star-wars on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki star-wars map - 2020 official; hirez;
a-dwarf-planet-region of space (as a-planet does)
as a-consequence, the-issue became a-matter of intense-debate during the-iau-general-assembly in august 2006.
michael-e.-brown stated that planetoid is "a-perfectly-good-word" that has been used for these-bodies for years, and that the-use of the-term-dwarf-planet for a-non-planet is "dumb", but that a-non-planet was motivated by an-attempt by the-iau-division iii-plenary-session to reinstate pluto as a-planet in a-second-resolution.
because of the-semantic-inconsistency of a-dwarf-planet not being a-planet due to the-failure of resolution-5b, alternative-terms such as nanoplanet and subplanet were discussed, but there was no-consensus among the-csbn to change the-csbn.
considered a-planet for half-a-century before reclassification as an-asteroid.
considered a-dwarf-planet by the-iau since the-adoption of resolution 5a on august 24, 2006.
considered a-planet for 76-years.
explicitly reclassified as a-dwarf-planet by the-iau with resolution-6a on august 24, 2006.
considered a-dwarf-planet by the-iau since the-adoption of resolution 5a on august 24, 2006, and named by the-iau dwarf-planet naming committee on september 13 of that-year.
q&a-new-planets-proposal, august 16, 2006 ottawa-citizen:
august 24, 2006
on september 5, 2005, vân released vân third album, con đường em đi
on october 2006, vân herself premiered one of she-new-songs "
bí ân, which premiered in vietnamese-cinemas in november 2007.
after winning, vân revealed that she would return to music in 2011.
later in 2017, the-untold-story played tien, an-inferni-elf-enforcer working for leilah, the-main-antagonist in the-film bright.
the-eleventh-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed on 23-may 2015 when the-eleventh-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne was confirmed that mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series.
mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series began on 20-october 2015.
ahead of the-previous-series mtv had renewed the-series for a-further-three-series was confirmed that the-previous-series would be filmed in greece.
in september 2015 when the-series-premiere was announced, the-series-premiere was confirmed that the-cast-members would air for 10-episodes, making the-series-premiere the-longest-series to date.
while production of the-holden-cruze in the-united-states and mexico ended in 2019, the-car is still produced and sold in other-markets worldwide.
manufactured by suzuki in japan, gm revealed the-production chevrolet-cruze in october 2001, with japanese sales commencing the-following-month.
the-first-renderings of the-chevrolet-cruze were revealed by gm at a-press-conference on july 15, 2008, with the-first-official-images released on august 21, 2008.cruze-production-sites include gunsan, jeonbuk, south-korea; saint-petersburg, russia; shenyang, china; and halol, india; hanoi, vietnam since april 2010 in complete knock-down (ckd) form, ust-kamenogorsk, kazakhstan from may 2010; rayong, thailand after december 2010, and são-caetano do sul, brazil from 2011.
gm in the-united-states has upgraded the-existing-plant in lordstown,-ohio to manufacture the-cruze, investing more than us$350 million.
underpinned by the-front-wheel-drive gm-delta-ii-platform, gm in the-united-states has confirmed the-the-cruze-development-program occurred under a-global-design-and-engineering-team.
a-five-door-cruze-hatchback was unveiled as a-concept-car at the-2010-paris-motor-show on october 1, 2010.
gm announced in april 2011 that 2,100-cruzes in north-america would be recalled following a-report of the-steering-wheel breaking away from the-steering-column during motion.
a-recall for 413,418-cruzes manufactured at the-lordstown,-ohio-plant covered 2011-and-2012-models built from september 2010 through may 2012 and affected-vehicles sold in the-united-states, canada, and israel.
gm issued another-recall on august 16, 2013 for 2011-and-2012-model-cruzes—292,879-cars built at the-lordstown-plant—to address a-potential-loss of power-brake-assist, due to a-faulty-microswitch in the-power-brake-vacuum-pipe-assembly of 9,547-australian-built-cruzes with the-1.4-liter-engine and the-6t40-automatic-transaxle.
on april 12, 2014 at the-new-york-international-auto-show, chevrolet announced a-refreshed-2015-model-cruze with an-updated-grille and a-more-angular-shape similar to that of the-malibu.
when the-cruze launched in the-united-states in 2010, a new 1.4-liter family 0 turbocharged gasoline engine was introduced.
south-african-sales of the-cruze commenced in september 2009.
the-"daewoo-lacetti-premiere" debuted on october 30, 2008, featuring the-1.6-liter-naturally-aspirated-engine.
the-chevrolet-cruze was launched in the-chinese-market on april 18, 2009 as a-sedan manufactured at gm-india's-halol-factory.
the-chevrolet-cruze was released in india on october 12, 2009.
the-naza-automotive-group in malaysia has announced that the-naza-automotive-group in malaysia's expecting to launch the-chevrolet-cruze in the malaysian market for the-first-time in the-second-quarter of 2010 and they are expecting to sell 1,200-to-1,500-units in 2010.in-thailand, the-car-launch in december 2010, built at gm's-rayong-facility.
holden announced on december 22, 2008 that holden elizabeth, south-australia-production-line would be split to commence local-production of the-cruze-sedan and the-australian-developed-hatchback.
production was originally scheduled to start by september 2010.
in april 2013, the-series-ii-cruze received an-update-and-price-drops.
holden ended manufacturing of the-series-ii-cruze at holden elizabeth plant on october 7, 2016, replaced by the-astra-hatchback and new-generation cruze-sedan—both imported.
full-production began september 8, 2010.
gm has allocated three-shifts to produce the-cruze-cruze and the-cruze arrived to dealers in september 2010, giving dealers time to deplete dealers inventories of cobalts.
the-new-model was first announced for the-chinese-market on the-2014-beijing-auto-show and went on sale in august 2014.
for 2019, the-cruze received a-mid-cycle-facelift, which made the-cruze debut in april 2018, along with restyled-versions of the-2019-camaro, spark and malibu.
the-2019-cruze went on sale in november 2018.
top marketsin august 2014
the-following-table shows the-top-selling-markets as of august 2014.
by april 2016, cumulative-sales of cars of the-cruze-name exceeded 4 million worldwide.
the-soviet-mars-3-mission included a-lander, which achieved a-soft-landing in december 1971; however, contact was lost seconds after touchdown.
nasa landed nasa curiosity rover on august 6, 2012, as a-part of nasa mars science laboratory (msl) mission to investigate martian-climate and geology.
in november 2016, nasa reported finding a-large-amount of underground-ice in the-utopia-planitia-region.
in english, the-planet is named for the-roman-god of war, an-association made because of an-association red color, which suggests blood.
in greek, the-planet is known as ἄρης-arēs, with the-inflectional-stem
due to the-global-influence of european-languages in astronomy, a-word like mars or marte for the-planet is common around the-world, though the-planet may be used alongside older,-native-words.
for example: arabic-مريخ-mirrīkh – which connotes fire – is used as the-(or-a)-name for the-planet in persian, urdu, malay and swahili, among others
one-theory, published in 1999 and re-examined in october 2005 (with the-help of the-mars-global-surveyor), is that these-bands suggest plate-tectonic-activity on mars four billion years ago, before the-planetary-dynamo ceased to function and the-planet's-magnetic-field faded.
geological-activity is still taking place on mars.
more-recent-evidence for liquid-water comes from the-finding of the-mineral-gypsum on the-surface by nasa's-mars-rover-opportunity in december 2011.
in september 2015, nasa announced that they had found conclusive-evidence of hydrated brine flows on recurring-slope-lineae, based on spectrometer-readings of the-darkened-areas of slopes.
researchers suspect that much of the-low-northern-plains of the-planet were covered with an-ocean hundreds of meters deep, though this remains controversial.
other-scientists caution that results from the-curiosity-rover have not been confirmed, and point out that martian-climate-models have not yet shown that the-planet was warm enough in the-past to support bodies of liquid-water.
due to the-smaller-mass and size of mars, the-probability of an-object colliding with the-planet is about half that of earth.
in september 2017, nasa reported radiation-levels on the-surface of the-planet mars were temporarily doubled, and were associated with an-aurora 25 times brighter than any observed earlier, due to a-massive,-and-unexpected,-solar-storm in the-middle of the-month.
the-planet is 1.52 times as far from the-sun as earth, resulting in just-43% of the-amount of sunlight.
most often this requires the-orbit of a-planet to lie within the-habitable-zone, which for the-sun extends from just beyond venus to about the-semi-major-axis of mars.
the-discovery of a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet sits 1.5 km (0.9-mi) below the-surface at the-base of the-southern-polar-ice-cap and is about-20-kilometres (12 mi) wide.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet was discovered using the-marsis-radar on board the mars express orbiter, and the-profiles were collected between may 2012 and december 2015.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet is centered at 193°-east, 81° south, a-flat-area that does not exhibit any-peculiar-topographic-characteristics.
a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet is mostly surrounded by higher-ground except on a-subglacial-lake on mars, the-first-known-stable-body of water on the-planet eastern side, where there is a-depression.
in modern-greek, the-planet retains the-planet ancient-name-ares (aris: άρης).from the-surface of mars, the-motions of phobos and deimos appear different from that of the-moon.
the-first-successful-asian-interplanetary-mission arrived at mars in november 2018.
insight detected potential-seismic-activity (a-"marsquake") in april 2019.
the-mars-2020-mission will cache samples for future-retrieval and return of samples to earth.
the-european-space-agency will launch the-exomars-rover-and-surface-platform sometime between august and october 2022.the
spacex-founder-elon-musk presented a-plan in september 2016 to, optimistically, launch a-crewed-mission to mars in 2024 at an-estimated-development-cost of us$10 billion, but no-human-mission is not expected to take place before 2027.
in october 2016, president-barack-obama renewed united-states-policy to pursue the-goal of sending humans to mars in the-2030s, and to continue using the-international-space-station as a-technology-incubator in that-pursuit.
a-transit of earth will be seen from mars on 10-november 2084.on 19 october 2014, comet-siding-spring passed extremely close to mars, so close that the-coma may have enveloped mars.
the-minimum-brightness is magnitude +1.86 when the-planet is in conjunction with the-sun.
for mars, the-babylonian-astronomers knew that the-planet made 37-synodic-periods, or 42-circuits of the-zodiac, every 79 years.
in ancient-greece, the-planet was known as πυρόεις.
in the-fourth-century-bce, aristotle noted that mars disappeared behind the-moon during an-occultation, indicating that the-planet was farther away.
once spacecraft visited the-planet during nasa's-mariner-missions in the-1960s and 1970s, these-concepts were radically broken.
nasa provides two-online-tools: mars-trek, which provides visualizations of the-planet using data from 50-years of exploration, and experience-curiosity, which simulates traveling on mars in 3-d with curiosity.
schiaparelli's-"canali"-observations combined with percival-lowell's-books on the-subject put forward the-standard-notion of a-planet that was a-drying, cooling, dying world with ancient-civilizations constructing irrigation-works.
tesla's-theories gained support from lord-kelvin who, while visiting the-united-states in 1902, was reported to have said that he thought tesla had picked up martian-signals being sent to the-united-states.
early in december 1900, edward-charles-pickering, director of the-harvard-college-observatory received from lowell-observatory in arizona a-telegram that a-shaft of light had been seen to project from mars (the-harvard-college-observatory makes a-specialty of mars) lasting seventy-minutes.
now the-story has gone the-world over.
in europe, the-story is stated that i have been in communication with mars, and all-sorts of exaggerations have spring up.
list of missions to mars
mars-exploration-program at nasa.gov-mars-trek – an-integrated-map-browser of maps and datasets for mars-google-mars and google-mars-3d, interactive-maps of the-planet geody-mars, mapping-site that supports nasa-world-wind, celestia, and other-applications
the-empire strikes back
although the-game's-reception was mixed at the-time of release, with sound-effects being praised and primarily-the-abstract-combat being criticized, the-game's-reception was mixed at the-time of release, with sound-effects being praised and primarily-the-abstract-combat being criticized legacy is largely negative, with several-modern-critics referring to the-game as one of the-worst-star-wars-games of all-time.
the-objective of the-game is to fire laser-blasts from the-seeker at the-opponent's-shield and finally directly at the-opponent by aiming in the-direction that the-lightsaber is pointing.
the-game has four-difficulty-levels, changing the-seeker's-speed; on the-highest-level, the-seeker is invisible.
the-game ends when one-player has received three-direct-hits, and the-winner becomes a-jedi-master.
titled star-wars: jedi-arena, the-game was set for release the following month.
the-game was programmed by rex-bradford and inspired by one-scene in star-wars in which luke-skywalker defends rex-bradford from the-seeker-ball's-incoming-laser-bolts with rex-bradford lightsaber on board the-millennium-falcon.
the-game was released for the-atari 2600 as scheduled, in january 1983.
according to peter-brown of gamespot, however, the-main-criticisms of the-game were the-stationary-jedi and abstract-combat, for the-opposite of which action-fans were expecting.
however, the-game also has a cult following.
ian-dransfield of digital-spy ranked ian-dransfield of digital-spy as one of the-5-worst-star-wars-games ever, noting that the-game has not aged well.
lewis-packwood of kotaku ranked the-game second-to-worst, believing that the-game should not have been based on one-particular-scene in star-wars involving luke-skywalker defending luke-skywalker from a-"floaty-beach-ball".
in the-book classic-home-video-games, 1972–1984: a-complete-reference-guide, brett-weiss criticized the-game's-controls, its-overall-"misguided"-concept (given that the-jedi never actually engage in a-duel), and the-gameplay for "[relying] too much on luck".
matt-dorville of blastr ranked the-game no.
31 on the-website's-list of 50-star-wars-games ranked from worst to best, admitting that jedi-arena was not bad at the-time of release and that the-game did offer an-entertaining-gameplay.
the-fourteenth-series of geordie-shore, a-british-television-programme based in newcastle upon tyne, was confirmed on 31-october 2016 when cast-member-scotty-t announced that cast-member-scotty-t would be taking a-break from the-series to focus on other-commitments.
the-series was filmed in november 2016, and began airing on 28-march 2017.
zahida-allen, chelsea-barber, sam-bentham, sarah-goodhart, abbie-holborn, elettra-lamborghini, billy-phillips and eve-shannon all appeared throughout the-series hoping to become permanent-members of the-cast, and in the-series finale, holborn was chosen.
it was also confirmed that scotty-t would return later in the-series.
the-moon was the-site of a-pivotal-battle depicted in return of the-jedi.
the-planet was orbited by nine-moons, the largest of which was known as the-forest-moon of endor or "sanctuary-moon".
the-ocean-moon of kef-bir was also one of nine-moons, the largest of which was known as the-forest-moon of endor or "sanctuary-moon", and is the-location where the-second-death-star crashed after the-second-death-star exploded over endor in return of the-jedi.
the-forest-moon of endor first appears in return of the-jedi, in which it is the-body in whose-orbit the-second-death-star is constructed, and is the-home of a-race of furry-aliens called ewoks.
special-effects storyboards for return of the-jedi
according to the-return of the-jedi-novelization, the-planet disappeared in an-ancient-cataclysm.
the-ewok-television-films depict a-gas-giant in the-sky, and novels such as the-truce at bakura-and-dark-apprentice also mention a-planet visible from the-moon.
the-planet is called "tana" in the-ewoks-animated-series, which also depicts a-binary-star-system (while other-sources depict only one sun).in
the-rise of skywalker depicts the-wreckage of the-second-death-star in a-watery-location, named kef bir, an-ocean-moon featured in the-film that orbits the-same-gas-giant as the-forest-moon.
list of star-wars-planets and moons ==
endor at the star-wars databank endor on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki endor 'holocaust' at star-wars technical-commentaries warsaw ( wor-saw
the-metropolis stands on the-vistula-river in east-central-poland and the-metropolis population is officially estimated at 1.8-million-residents within a-greater-metropolitan-area of 3.1-million-residents, which makes warsaw the 7th most-populous capital city in the-european-union.
warsaw is an-alpha-global-city, a-major-international-tourist-destination, and a-significant-cultural,-political,-and-economic-hub.
warsaw rose to prominence in the-late-16th-century, when sigismund-iii decided to move the-polish-capital and sigismund-iii royal court from kraków.
the-elegant-architecture, grandeur and extensive-boulevards earned warsaw the-nickname 'paris of the-north' prior to the-second-world-war.
bombed at the-start of the-german-invasion in 1939, phoenix-city withstood a-siege, but was largely destroyed by the-warsaw-ghetto-uprising in 1943, the general warsaw uprising in 1944 and the systematic razing by the-germans in advance of the-vistula–oder-offensive.
warsaw gained the-new-title of phoenix-city because of warsaw complete-reconstruction after the-second-world-war, which had left over-85% of warsaw buildings in ruins.
in 2012, the-economist-intelligence-unit ranked warsaw as the-32nd-most-liveable-city in the-world.
jointly with frankfurt and paris, warsaw features one of the-highest-number of skyscrapers in the-european-union.
the-city is the-seat of the-polish-academy of sciences, national-philharmonic-orchestra, university of warsaw, the warsaw university of technology, the-national-museum, zachęta-art-gallery and the warsaw grand theatre, the largest of
warsaw is positioning warsaw as central-and-eastern-europe's-chic-cultural-capital with thriving-art-or-club-scenes and restaurants, with around-a-quarter of the-city's-area occupied by parks.
the-official-city-name in full is miasto-stołeczne-warszawa ("the-capital-city of warsaw").other names for warsaw include varsovia (latin,-spanish) and varsóvia (portuguese), varsovie (french), varsavia (italian), warschau-(german,-dutch), װאַרשע-/-varshe-(yiddish), варшава / varshava (russian), varšuva (lithuanian), varsó-(hungarian), varšava (serbo-croatian, slovene and czech).
a native or resident of warsaw is known as a-varsovian – in polish-warszawiak, warszawianin (male), warszawianka (female), warszawiacy, and warszawianie (plural).
with the-completion of st-john's-cathedral in 1390, warsaw became one of the-seats of the-dukes of masovia and was officially made capital of the masovian duchy in 1413.
in 1529, warsaw for the-first-time became the-seat of a-general-sejm, and held that-privilege permanently from 1569.
renowned-italian-architects were brought to warsaw to reshape the-royal-castle, the-streets and the-marketplace, resulting in the-old-town's-early-italianate-appearance.
due to its-central-location between the-commonwealth's-two-major-cities of kraków and vilnius, warsaw became the-capital of the-commonwealth and the-polish-crown when sigismund-iii-vasa transferred sigismund-iii-vasa royal court in 1596.
in the-subsequent-years warsaw significantly expanded to the-south and westwards.
the-conduct of the-great-northern-war (1700–1721) also forced warsaw to pay heavy-tributes to the-invading-armies.
stanisław-ii-augustus, who remodelled the-interior of the-royal-castle, also made warsaw a centre of culture and the arts.
this earned warsaw the-nickname paris of the-north.
warsaw remained the-capital of the polish–lithuanian-commonwealth until 1795, when warsaw was annexed by the-kingdom of prussia in the-third-and-final-partition of poland; warsaw subsequently became the-capital of the-province of south prussia.
warsaw was made the capital of a-newly-created-french-client-state, known as the-duchy of warsaw, after a-portion of poland's-territory was liberated from prussia, russia and austria by napoleon in 1806.
following napoleon's-defeat and exile, the-1815-congress of vienna assigned warsaw to congress-poland, a-constitutional-monarchy within the-easternmost-sector (or partition) under a-personal-union with imperial-russia.
the-royal-university of warsaw was established in 1816.
on 27-february 1861, a warsaw crowd protesting against russian-control over congress-poland was fired upon by russian-troops.
the-underground-polish-national-government resided in warsaw during the-january-uprising in 1863–64.
warsaw flourished in throughout the-19th-century under mayor-sokrates-starynkiewicz (1875–92), who was appointed by alexander-iii.
under warsaw warsaw saw warsaw first water and sewer systems designed and built by the-english-engineer william-lindley and his-son, william-heerlein-lindley, as well as the-expansion and modernisation of trams, street-lighting, and gas-infrastructure.
the-imperial-census of 1897 recorded 626,000-people living in warsaw, making the-imperial-census of 1897 the third-largest city of the-empire after st.-petersburg and moscow as well as the largest city in the-region.
during world-war-i, warsaw was occupied by germany from 4-august 1915 until november 1918.
germany did so, and underground-leader-józef-piłsudski returned to warsaw on the-same-day which marked the-beginning of the-second-polish-republic, the-first-truly-sovereign-polish-state after 1795.
in the-course of the-polish–soviet-war (1919–1921), the-1920-battle of warsaw was fought on the-eastern-outskirts of the-city.
in 1921, warsaw's-total-area was estimated at only-124.7-square-kilometres with 1-million-inhabitants–over-8,000-people per square-kilometre made warsaw more densely populated than contemporary-london.
stefan-starzyński was the-mayor of warsaw between 1934 and 1939.
after the-german-invasion of poland on 1-september 1939 started the-second-world-war, warsaw was defended until 27-september.
the-polish-government-in-exile in london gave orders to the-underground-home-army (ak) to try to seize control of warsaw before the-red-army arrived.
in 1945, after the-bombings, revolts, fighting, and demolition had ended, most of warsaw lay in ruins.
nevertheless, warsaw officially resumed warsaw role as the-capital of poland and the-country's-centre of political-and-economic-life.
after world-war-ii, the "bricks for warsaw" campaign was initiated and large-prefabricated-housing-projects were erected in warsaw to address the-major-housing-shortage.
in 1979, less than a year after becoming pope, john paul ii's celebrated mass in victory-square in warsaw and ended john-paul-ii's-sermon with a-call to "renew the-face" of poland.
with the-entry of poland into the-european-union in 2004, warsaw is experiencing the-largest-economic-boom of warsaw history.
the-opening-fixture of uefa-euro 2012 took place in warsaw and warsaw also hosted the-2013-united-nations-climate-change-conference and the-2016-nato-summit.
warsaw lies in east-central-poland about-300-km (190-mi) from the-carpathian-mountains and about 260 km (160-mi) from the-baltic-sea, 523 km (325 mi) east of berlin, germany.
warsaw straddles the-vistula-river.
there are some-hills (mostly artificial) located within the-confines of the-city – e.g.-warsaw-uprising-hill (121-metres (397.0-ft)) and szczęśliwice-hill (138-metres (452.8-ft) – the-highest-point of warsaw in general).
warsaw is located on two-main-geomorphologic-formations: the-plain-moraine-plateau and the-vistula-valley with warsaw asymmetrical pattern of different-terraces.
the-significant-element of the-relief, in this-part of warsaw, is the-edge of moraine-plateau called warsaw escarpment.
the-right-side of warsaw has a-different-pattern of geomorphological-forms.
officially, warsaw experiences an-oceanic-climate, denoted by cfb by köppen's-original-classification.
but warsaw being in the-midst of siberian-air-mass and far from the-coast has clear-continental-influences (dfb), defined as such with old-data.
by the-köppen-geiger-climate-classification-measure, warsaw is defined as having a-humid-continental-climate (köppen-climate-classification-dfb), with long-cold-winters and short-warm-summers, though the-urban-heat-island-effect does make warsaw's winters slightly less severe than in the-surrounding-rural-areas.
however, by classification of the-wincenty-okołowicz, warsaw has a-warm-temperate-climate in the-center of continental-europe with the-"fusion" of different-features.
warsaw has cold,-sometimes-snowy,-cloudy-winters and warm,-sunny,-stormy-summers.
warsaw is europe's-sixth-driest-major-city (third in eastern-europe), with yearly-rainfall averaging 529-millimetres (20.8 in), the wettest month being july.
, warsaw remained a-small-city with only-privately-owned-palaces, mansions, villas and several-streets of townhouses.
the-neoclassical-architecture in warsaw can be described by the-simplicity of the-geometrical-forms teamed with a-great-inspiration from the-roman-period.
contemporary-architecture in warsaw is represented by the-metropolitan-office-building at pilsudski-square by norman-foster, warsaw university library (buw) by marek-budzyński and zbigniew-badowski, featuring a-garden on its-roof and view of the-vistula-river, rondo-1-office-building by skidmore, owings & merrill, złota-44-residential-skyscraper by daniel-libeskind, museum of the-history of polish-jews by rainer-mahlamäki and golden-terraces, consisting of seven-overlapping-domes-retail-and-business-centre.
jointly with frankfurt, london, paris and rotterdam, warsaw is one of the-cities with the-highest-number of skyscrapers in europe.
although warsaw-warsaw is a-fairly-young-city compared to other-european-capitals, warsaw has numerous-tourist-attractions and architectural-monuments dating back-centuries.
further-south is the-so-called-royal-route, with many-historical-churches, baroque and classicist palaces, most-notably-the-presidential-palace, and the university of warsaw campus.
since serves the-religious-communities of warsaw such as catholics, jews, orthodox-christians, muslims or protestants, is often called a necropolis.
many-places commemorate the-heroic-history of warsaw such as pawiak, a-german-gestapo-prison now occupied by a-mausoleum of memory of martyrdom and a-museum.
also-many-references to marie-curie, marie-curie work and marie-curie family can be found in warsaw; curie's-birthplace at the warsaw new town, the-working-places where marie-curie did marie-curie first-scientific-works and the-radium-institute at wawelska-street for the-research and the-treatment of which marie-curie founded in 1925.
the-wilanów-palace-parkland on the-outskirts of warsaw traces the-wilanów-palace-parkland on the-outskirts of warsaw history to the-second-half of the-17th-century and covers an-area of 43 ha.
the-oldest-park in the-praga-borough was established between 1865-and-1871.the-flora of warsaw may be considered very rich in species on city-standards.
this is mainly due to the-location of warsaw within the-border-region of several-big-floral-regions comprising substantial-proportions of close-to-wilderness areas (natural-forests, wetlands along the-vistula) as well as arable-land, meadows and forests.
there are also several-lakes in warsaw – mainly-the-oxbow-lakes at czerniaków and kamionek.
demographically, warsaw was the-most-diverse-city in poland, with significant-numbers of foreign-born-residents.
prior to the-second-world-war, warsaw hosted the-world's-second-largest-jewish-population after new-york – approximately-30-percent of the-city's-total-population in the-late-1930s.
much like most-capital-cities in europe, warsaw boasts a-foreign-born-population that is significantly larger than in other-cities, although not coming close to the-figures representing the-likes of madrid or rome.
in 2019, it was estimated that 40,000-people living in warsaw were born overseas.
throughout its-existence, warsaw had been a-multi-cultural-and-multi-religious-city.
the-archdiocese of warsaw and the-diocese of warsaw-praga are the-two-ecclesiastical-districts active in warsaw-praga which serve the-large-roman-catholic-population of 1.4 million.
the-jewish-commune of warsaw (gmina-wyznaniowa-żydowska) is one of eight in poland; chief rabbi of poland michael schudrich resides in warsaw-praga.
as the-capital of poland, warsaw is the-political-centre of the-country.
additionally, warsaw elects two-meps (members of the-european-parliament).
the-sejm, the-lower-house of the-european-parliament, is situated in warsaw on wiejska-street.
municipal-government existed in warsaw until world-war-ii and was restored in 1990 (during the-communist-times, the-national-city-council – miejska-rada-narodowa – governed in warsaw).
in warsaw, warsaw districts additionally have some of a-powiat's-entitlements – like the-already-mentioned-car-registration.
legislative-power in warsaw is vested in a unicameral warsaw city council (rada-miasta), which comprises 60-members.
the mayor (burmistrz) warsaw is called president.
since 1990 the-president of warsaw had been elected by the-city-council.
since 2002 the-president of warsaw warsaw is elected by all of the-citizens of warsaw.
the-president of warsaw warsaw is rafał-trzaskowski.
headquarters of polish-government-agencies in warsaw ===
in 2002, the-town wesoła was incorporated and the-territorial-division of warsaw was established as follows:
warsaw is a-county-(powiat), and is further divided into 18-districts (dzielnica), each one with warsaw own administrative-body.
warsaw has two-historic-neighbourhoods, called old town (stare-miasto) and new town (nowe-miasto), in the-borough of śródmieście.
warsaw is the-leading-economic-and-financial-hub of central-europe, the-visegrád-group and the-three-seas-initiative.
in 2019, the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) was estimated at €94 billion ($105 billion), which places warsaw among the-wealthiest-regions in the-european-union; the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) generates approximately 1/6 of the-total-gdp of poland and the-country's-national-income.
in 2020, warsaw was classified as an-alpha-world-city (also known as a-"major-global-city that links economic-regions into the-world-economy") by the-globalization and world-cities (gawc)-study-group and network from loughborough-university, placing the-city's-gross-domestic-product (gdp) on a-par with cities such as sydney, istanbul, amsterdam or seoul.
warsaw's-ever-growing-business-community has been noticed globally, regionally, and nationally; in 2019 warsaw was one of the-top-destinations for foreign-investors in europe.
in october 2019, warsaw's-unemployment-rate was 1.3%, the lowest in the-country.
warsaw's-first-stock-exchange was re-established in april 1991, following the-end of a-communist-planned-economy and the-reintroduction of a-free-market-economy.
warsaw has developed a-particularly-strong-retail-market/sector, representing around-13% of the-total-retail-stock in warsaw.
warsaw is the-media-centre of poland, and the-location of the-main-headquarters of tvp and other-numerous-local-and-national-tv-and-radio-stations, such as polskie-radio (polish-radio), tvn, polsat, tv4, tv-puls,
warsaw is also the-printing-capital of mtv-poland with a-wide-variety of domestic-and-foreign-periodicals expressing diverse-views, and domestic-newspapers are extremely competitive.
warsaw also has a-sizable-movie-and-television-industry.
since world-war-ii, warsaw has been the-most-important-centre of film-production in poland.
warsaw holds some of the-finest-institutions of higher-education in poland.
warsaw is home to four-major-universities and over-62-smaller-schools of higher-education.
the-overall-number of students of all-grades of education in warsaw is almost 500,000 (29.2% of the-city-population; 2002).
the-university of warsaw was established in 1816, when the-partitions of poland separated warsaw from the-oldest-and-most-influential-polish-academic-center, in kraków.
the-university of warsaw is the-second-academic-school of technology in the-country, and one of the largest in east-central-europe, employing 2,000-professors.
other-institutions for higher-education include the-medical-university of warsaw, the-largest-medical-school in poland and one of the most prestigious; the-national-defence-university, highest-military-academic-institution in poland; the-fryderyk-chopin-university of music, the-oldest-and-largest-music-school in poland and one of the largest in europe; the warsaw school of economics, the-oldest-and-most-renowned-economic-university in poland; the warsaw university of life sciences, the-largest-agricultural-university, founded in 1818; and the-university of social sciences and humanities, the-first-private-secular-university in poland.
warsaw has numerous-libraries, many of which contain vast-collections of historic-documents.
warsaw is a-considerable-transport-hub linking western,-central-and-eastern-europe.
warsaw has a-good-network of buses and a continuously expanding perpendicular-metro running north to south and east to west.
warsaw lacks a-complete-ring-road-system and most-traffic goes directly through the-city-centre, leading to the-eleventh-highest-level of congestion in europe.
s8 and a-part of s2 are open, with s2 to be finished by 2020.the-a2-motorway opened in june 2012, stretches west from warsaw and is a-direct-motorway-connection with łódź, poznań and ultimately with berlin.
public-transport in warsaw ==
, warsaw hosts many-events and festivals.
warsaw is also considered as one of the-european-hubs of underground-electronic-music with a-very-attractive-house-and-techno-music-scene.
warsaw is home to over-30-major-theatres spread throughout the-city, including the-national-theatre (founded in 1765) and the-grand-theatre (established 1778).
warsaw also attracts many-young-and-off-stream-directors and performers who add to warsaw's theatrical culture.
warsaw hosts the-international-theatrical-meetings.
there are over-60-museums and galleries in warsaw which are accessible to the-public.
a-fine-tribute to the-fall of warsaw and history of poland can be found in the warsaw uprising museum and in the-katyń-museum which preserves the-memory of that-crime.
dating back to 1936 the-warsaw-uprising-museum contains 60-rooms which host a-permanent-exhibition of the-history of warsaw from warsaw origins until today.
much like paris or vienna, warsaw once possessed a-prominent-café-culture which dated back to the-early-18th-century, and the-city's-cafeterias were a-place for socializing.
in the-20th-century, warsaw was famed for warsaw state-owned milk bars (bar-mleczny) which offered cheap-fast-food in the-form of home-dinners.
several-commemorative-events take place every year, notably-the-orange-warsaw-festival featuring music-concerts.
the-‘water-–-light-–-sound’-multimedia-shows take place each friday and saturday from may till september at 9.30-pm (may and – 9-october pm).
the-warsaw-film-festival, an-annual-festival that takes place every october.
the-oldest-existing-armed-seal of warsaw is from the-year 1390, consisting of a-round-seal bordered with the-latin-inscription sigilium-civitatis-varsoviensis (seal of the-city of warsaw).
in 1653 the-poet zygmunt-laukowski asks the-question: warsaw of strong-walls; why was the-emblem mermaid with sharp-sword, given you by the-kings?
due to vandalism, the-mermaid-statue had been moved to the-grounds of the-museum of warsaw – the-statue in the-square is a-copy.
another-legend says that a-mermaid once swam to warsaw from the-baltic-sea for the-love of the-griffin, the-ancient-defender of the-city, who was killed in a-struggle against the-swedish-invasions of the-17th-century.
a-mermaid once swam to warsaw from the-baltic-sea for the-love of the-griffin, the-ancient-defender of the-city, who was killed in a-struggle against the-swedish-invasions of the-17th-century, wishing to avenge his-death, took the-position of defender of warsaw, becoming the-symbol of the-city.
members of 651-squadron-army-air-corps of the-united-kingdom also wear the-maid of warsaw on the-left-sleeve of members of 651-squadron-army-air-corps of the-united-kingdom
on 9-april 2008 the president of warsaw, hanna-gronkiewicz-waltz, obtained from the-mayor of stuttgart-wolfgang-schuster a-challenge-award – a-commemorative-plaque awarded to warsaw as the-european-capital of sport in 2008.
polonia was relegated from the-country's-top-flight in 2013 because of their-local-rivals, polonia warsaw disastrous financial situation.
one of the-most-famous-people born in warsaw was maria-skłodowska-curie, who achieved international-recognition for her-research on radioactivity and was the-first-female-recipient of the-nobel-prize.
a-famous-artist born in warsaw was born maria-górska in warsaw to wealthy-parents and in 1916 married a-polish-lawyer-tadeusz-łempicki.
better than anyone else a-famous-artist born in warsaw represented the-art-deco-style in painting and art.
nathan-alterman, the-israeli-poet, was born in warsaw, as was moshe-vilenski, the-israeli-composer, lyricist, and pianist, who studied music at the warsaw conservatory.
russian-jewish-poet and essayist-osip-mandelstam, one of the-foremost-members of the-acmeist-school of poetry was born in warsaw while it was part of the-russian-empire.
warsaw was the-beloved-city of isaac-bashevis-singer, which warsaw described in many of warsaw novels: "warsaw has just now been destroyed.
notable-sportspeople born in warsaw include footballer-robert-lewandowski and tennis-player-iga-świątek.
warsaw is twinned with:
warsaw also cooperates with: ==
battle of warsaw-destruction of warsaw-list of tallest-buildings in warsaw-list of honorary-citizens of warsaw-street-names of warsaw
tourism in poland-treaty of warsaw (disambiguation)
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-first-installment in the-star-wars
sequel-trilogy, following return of the-jedi (1983), and the-seventh-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
set thirty years after return of the-jedi, the force awakens follows rey, finn, poe-dameron, and han-solo's-search for luke-skywalker and their-fight in the-resistance, led by general-leia-organa and veterans of the-rebel-alliance, against kylo-ren and the-first-order, a-successor to the-galactic-empire.
the-film was announced after the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
the-film is the-first-star-wars-film to not extensively involve franchise-creator-george-lucas, who only served as a-creative-consultant in the-early-stages of production.
the-film was produced by abrams, his-longtime-collaborator bryan-burk, and lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy.
the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi, rewrote an-initial-script by michael-arndt.
filming began in april 2014 in abu-dhabi and iceland, with principal-photography also taking place in ireland and at pinewood-studios in england, and wrapped in november.
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles on december 14, 2015, and was released in the-united-states on december 18.
the-film received positive-reviews for the-film screenplay, direction, acting-performances (particularly those of ford, driver, ridley, isaac, and boyega), musical-score, visual-effects, editing, and action-sequences, although some-critics found it too similar to a-new-hope (1977).
the-film marked an-improvement in a-reception over the-previous-four-star-wars-films.
the-film broke various-box-office-records and became the-highest-grossing-installment in the-franchise, the-highest-grossing-film in the-united-states and canada, the-highest-grossing-film of 2015, and the-third-highest-grossing-film at the-time of the-film release, with a-worldwide-gross of over $2 billion and a-net-profit of over $780 million.
among films'-box-office adjusted for inflation, the-film is the-top-grossing-sequel of all-time in north-america.
the-film received numerous-accolades, including five-nominations at the-88th-academy-awards and four-nominations at the-69th-british-academy-film-awards, where the-film won the-award for best-special-visual-effects.
at the-first-order's-starkiller-base, a-planet converted into a-superweapon, supreme-leader-snoke allows general-hux to use the-weapon for the-first-time.
hamill was initially skeptical of luke only appearing at the-end of the-film and called his-limited-screentime "a great surprise".
after the-events of return of the-jedi, luke's-twin-sister is described as "a-little-more-battle weary, a little more broken hearted".
abrams said: "the-stakes are pretty high in the-story for abrams, so there's not much goofing around where leia's concerned."
abrams said the-team "really wanted the-story to feel authentic, despite being a-wild-fantasy.
tim-rose and mike-quinn reprise tim-rose and mike-quinn respective roles as admiral-ackbar and nien-nunb from return of the-jedi, with erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich returning erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich respective voices.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
arndt also developed some-backstory-elements for the-returning-characters from the-original-trilogy, such as how leia was instrumental in rebuilding the-republic after the-fall of the-empire before being discredited when it was publicly revealed that leia biological father was darth-vader (this would go on to become a-central-plot-point in the-canonical-novel-star-wars:
the-production announced arndt's-exit from the-project on october 24, 2013, and kasdan and abrams took over script-duties.
abrams expressed relief that the-release-date was announced for december 2015 instead of a-previously-discussed-summer-release.
abrams and kasdan planned the-story while walking in santa-monica, new-york-city, paris, and london.
abrams said the-key to the-film was [returned] to the-roots of the-first-star-wars-films and be based more on emotion than explanation.
in april 2014, lucasfilm clarified that episodes vii–ix would not feature storylines from the-star-wars expanded universe, though other-elements could be included, as with the-tv-series star-wars-rebels.
daisy-ridley later recounted that abrams had written drafts for episodes 8 and 9.a fictional-language was developed for use in the-film by youtube-star-sara-forsberg, who created the-viral-video-series "what languages sound like to foreigners"; forsberg developed the-language by studying various-languages, such as hindi and gujarati.
in november 2015, lucas recorded an-hour-long-interview with cbs-news-reporter-charlie-rose in which he said disney had not been "keen" to involve he and conceded: "if i get in there, i'm just going to cause trouble because they're not going to do what i want they to do, and i don't have the-control to do that any more, and all it would do is just muck everything up.
abrams felt that, as the first in a-new-trilogy, the-film "needed to take a-couple of steps backwards into very-familiar-terrain" and use plot-elements from previous-star-wars-films.
representatives from lucasfilm met with chancellor of the-exchequer george osborne to agree to produce the force awakens in the-uk.
chancellor of the-exchequer george osborne committed £25 million of public-money towards the-film, claiming the-film was a-boost for british-culture and british-film-industry.
beginning in september 2013, production-spaces at the-bad-robot-facility were converted for shooting of the force awakens for the-benefit of shooting a-minor-portion of the-film in the-united-states.
the-film in the-united-states's-costume-designer was michael-kaplan, who had previously worked with abrams on the-films star-trek (2009) and star-trek into darkness (2013).
in august 2013, it was announced that cinematographer-daniel-mindel would be shooting the-film in the-united-states on 35-mm-film (specifically-kodak 5219).
in october 2013, other-crew-members were confirmed, including sound-designer-ben-burtt, director of photography-mindel, production-designers rick-carter and darren-gilford, costume-designer-michael-kaplan, special-effects-supervisor-chris-corbould, re-recording-mixer-gary-rydstrom, supervising-sound-editor-matthew-wood, visual-effects-supervisors-roger-guyett, and executive-producer-jason-mcgatlin.
open-auditions were held in the-united-kingdom and the-united-states in november 2013 for the-roles of rachel and thomas.
screen-tests with actors continued until at-least-three-weeks before the-official-announcement in april 2014, with final-casting-decisions made only a few weeks earlier.
though lucas intimated that previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill would return for the-new-film as early as march 2013, previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill casting was not confirmed until over a year later.
in april, the-cast was announced with a-photo of the-first-table read of the-script at pinewood-studios near london, picturing director-abrams with ford, ridley, fisher, peter mayhew, producer bryan burk, lucasfilm president and producer kathleen kennedy, domhnall gleeson, anthony daniels, hamill, serkis, isaac, boyega, driver, and writer lawrence kasdan.
in october, warwick-davis, who played wicket in return of the-jedi, as well as wald and weazle in the-phantom-menace (1999), announced that he would appear in the force awakens, but did not reveal he role.
the-official-announcement came in march, when disney and lucasfilm announced that principal-photography would commence in may and be based at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
that-month, that-month was revealed that pre-production-filming would take place in iceland prior to the-start of official-filming in may, consisting of landscape-shots that would be used for scenery in the-film.
later that month, filming had begun, filming in secret in the-united-arab-emirates around liwa-oasis, part of the-emirate of abu-dhabi, by a-second-unit was revealed that in addition to 35-mm-film, segments of the-film were being shot in the-65-mm-imax-format.
foodles-production-(uk)-ltd was subsequently fined $1.95 million in october 2016 for two-health-and-safety-breaches, after admitting the-counts at an-earlier-hearing.
in july 2014, filming took place over three-days at skellig-michael, an-island off the-coast of county-kerry,-ireland, with a-cast including mark-hamill and daisy-ridley.
landscape-shots for the-planet
principal-photography ended on november 3, 2014.
abrams supervised post-production and editing of the-film at bad-robot-productions'-headquarters in santa-monica.
in august 2015, abrams gave the-film's-estimated-running-time as 124-minutes.
"on november 6, 2014, the-film's-title was announced as star-wars: the-force awakens.
in december 2015, pablo-hidalgo, the-creative-executive at the-lucasfilm-story-group which handles all-the-canonical-continuity for the-star-wars-universe, revealed that the-working-title for the-film was shadow of the-empire "for the-longest-time".
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
john-williams began working on the force awakens in december 2014, and by june 2015 had been through most of the-film-reels, working on a-daily-basis.
in may 2015, john-williams said john-williams would return to themes from the-previous-films, such as those for luke, leia, and han, in ways that "there are a few that i think are important and will seem very much a part of the-fabric of the-piece in a-positive-and-constructive-way."
gustavo-dudamel conducted the-opening-and-end-title-music for the-film at williams'-behest.
recording of the-score was completed on november 14, 2015.
the-film at williams'-behest's-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 18, 2015.
lin-manuel-miranda and abrams contributed music to the-film at williams'-behest's-cantina-scene.
on november 28, 2014, lucasfilm released an-88-second-teaser-trailer.
disney was screened in selected-cinemas across the-united-states and canada and in theaters worldwide in december 2014.
on december 11, 2014, abrams and kennedy released a-series of eight-mock-topps-trading-cards revealing the-names of several-characters.
on april 16, 2015, a-second-teaser-trailer, this one lasting two-minutes, was shown at the-opening-panel at the-star-wars-celebration in anaheim, california.
at the-2015-san-diego-comic-con-international, in addition to a-panel with many of the-actors, a behind-the-scenes look at the-film demonstrated the-film's use of practical-sets and effects.
the-film was positively received, with nigel-m.-smith of the-guardian writing: "
smith compared the-marketing-strategy for the-film to that of a-previous-abrams-film, super 8, saying "the-promos [...] are notable for what they tease, not what they give away. "
walt-disney-studios and lucasfilm presented a-look at the force awakens at disney's-d23-expo in august 2015.
in october 2015, lucasfilm unveiled the-theatrical-release-poster and a-third-trailer.
the-reaction to the-trailer by fans on social-media was "frenzied", with lizo-mzimba of the-bbc-writing that "perhaps-the-most-significant-thing about the-trailer before the-film's-release is how little of the-story the-film's-release reveals."
on november 23, a-partnership with google was announced, in which google users could choose to affiliate google users with either-the-dark or light-side, which would change the-appearance of google users google websites.
on december 17, 2015, select-theaters across the-united-states and canada aired a-star-wars-marathon, airing the-six-previous-star-wars-episode-films in 2d, followed by the force awakens in 3d.
disney-publishing-worldwide and lucasfilm announced a-series of at-least-20-books and comics, "journey to star-wars:
the-series includes books by del-rey and disney-lucasfilm-publishers and comic-books from marvel-comics.
alan-dean-foster wrote a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18.
in an-effort to avoid revealing plot-details before the-film's-release, the-print-release of a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18 was delayed until january 2016.
marvel-comics published a-six-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-force awakens between june and november 2016.disney-consumer-products and lucasfilm announced that september 4, 2015 would be deemed "force friday" and would be the-official-launch of all-the-merchandise for the-force awakens.
disney-and-maker-studios hosted an-18-hour-live-streaming-presentation on youtube, showcasing multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015.
among multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015 were a-remote-controlled-bb-8 developed by sphero.
free-downloadable-content for electronic-arts-star-wars-battlefront-reboot allowed players to battle on the-planet-jakku; an-update to the-mobile-game-star-wars-commander, released by disney-mobile for ios, android and the-windows-store, allowed players to battle on the-planet
eventually, the-film got a-full-lego-video-game-adaptation, titled lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens, which was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for microsoft-windows, nintendo-3ds, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, wii-u, xbox 360, and xbox one on june 28, 2016.
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles at the-tcl-chinese-theatre, el-capitan-theatre, and dolby-theatre on december 14, 2015.
the-film was released in 12-countries, including european-nations (such as italy and france), the-philippines, and thailand on december 16; 32-countries including the-united-kingdom, mexico, and additional-european,-asian,-african,-south-american,-and-oceania-countries on december 17; and in the-united-states and canada, japan, spain, and venezuela on december 18, in 3d and imax 3d.
it was released in india on december 25 and in china on january 9
, 2016.in the-united-states and canada, it had the-widest-release of december across 4,134-theaters, of which 3,300 were 3d-locations, a-record-392-imax-screens (13 of which were 70mm), 451-premium-large-format-screens, 146-d-box-locations, as well as releasing in the-dolby-vision-format (high-dynamic-range, rec.
on december 18, 2015, 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began playing on every-imax-screen in the-united-states and canada for four-straight-weeks up to january 14, 2016.
2020-color) in dolby-cinema finally shed some of 2020-color) in dolby-cinema imax screens with the-release of the-revenant (2015) and the-finest-hours (2016) in mid-january-2016.advance-ticket-sales for 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began on october 19, 2015, and were in strong-demand, resulting in online-movie-ticket-sites crashing.
in the-united-states, the-film pre-sold a-record-breaking-$6.5-million-worth of imax-ticket-sales on a-single-day.
this-number was raised to $100 million including $50–60 million in advance-ticket-sales by december 14.
we have people buying star-wars [the-force awakens] into 2016.
similarly, the-film broke pre-sales-records in the-uk, canada, and germany.
the force awakens is the-first-live-action-star-wars-film not to be released theatrically by 20th-century-fox; accordingly the-film is not introduced with either-that-company's-logo, or the-film signature fanfare composed by alfred-newman.
instead, the-film is the first in the-series to be distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, and the-film is presented with only-lucasfilm's-production-logo shown silently before the-main-titles.
disney-chairman-bob-iger explained that the-decision not to place disney-branding on the-film was "for the-fans".
anywhere on april 1, 2016, with a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5.
a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5 contains additional-footage, with eight-bonus-features.
a-blu-ray-3d-"collector's-edition" of the-film was released on november 15, including all-the-features of the-original-home-releases, as well as several-new-bonus-features, including new-deleted-scenes and audio-commentary by director-j.-j.-abrams.
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the force awakens grossed $936.7 million in the-united-states and canada, and $1.132 billion in other-countries for a-worldwide-total of $2.068 billion.
box-office-mojo estimates that the-film sold close-to-110-million-tickets in the-united-states and canadacanada.
the force awakens earned 8.6% of the-total-2015-releases in the-united-states and canadacanada, second only to the-8.8% of the-box-office earned by titanic in 1997.
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence predicted the-force-awakens would earn up to $540 million worldwide for the-force
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence believed that the-force-awakens would have the-widest-release ever, across 4,500-theaters in the-united-states and canada.
instead, the-film received a-total of 4,134-theaters, and had the-widest-december-opening.
box-office-analyst-phil-contrino likened the-film to avatar (2009), which opened to $77 million in the-united-states and canada and went on to earn $2.8 billion worldwide, saying the-force-awakens would earn $1 billion "without blinking" and could gross $2 billion.
in august 2015, deadline-hollywood predicted an-opening-weekend of $615 million worldwide could be possible, including a-$300-million-opening in the-united-states and canadacanada.
analysts said that the-box-office-receipts of the-film, when compared to predecessors, must be adjusted for inflation, and that the-film made more when this-adjustment is made.
it has further been observed that each of the-first-three-films in the-series was more profitable in calculating revenue against production-costs.
box-office-analyst-paul-dergarabedian said that while avatar and the force awakens were both released on the-same-date of december 18, higher-ticket-prices in 2015 and imax-screenings could push star-wars "into the box office stratosphere".
while the force awakens was very successful in the-united-states and canada, the-same-success was not witnessed in many-overseas-individual-markets such as germany, india, latin-america, and parts of asia.
one cited reason for this is that overseas-audiences do not have the-same-nostalgia or affinity for the-film as those in the-u.s.
canada, the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015.
on the-film opening day, the-film grossed $119.1 million, marking the-biggest-single--and-opening-day-record and the-first-time a-film has earned more than $100 million in a-single-day.
without thursday-night-grosses, the-film earned the second-largest opening-day gross and a-record of $247.9 million for the-film opening weekend.
the-opening-weekend-figure included an-imax-opening-weekend-record of $30.1 million (12.65%) from 391-imax-theaters, which nearly amounts to the-$252.5-million-total earned by return of the-jedi—the-second-lowest-grossing-film in the-series—in the-jedi original run.
revenues in the-film's-second-weekend decreased by only-39.8% in the-united-states and canada, earning $149.2 million, to remain in first-place at the-box-office and recording the-biggest-second-weekend of all-time.
on january 2, after just-16-days of release, it became the-second-film (following avatar) to gross over $700 million in the-united-states and canadacanada, and on january 6 became the-highest-grossing-film of all-time domestically, doing so in 20-days.
on february 5, the force awakens became the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada.
the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fell outside of the top ten for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada
eleventh-weekend during the-weekend-february-26–28, 2016, and did not achieve $1 million in ticket-sales for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fourteenth weekend.
internationally, the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada was released in over-30,000-screens.
it opened on december 16, 2015, in 12-international-markets and earned $14.1 million on it opening day, debuting at first-place in all of them.
it expanded in an-additional-42-countries on december 17, generating $58.6 million for a-two-day-international-total of $72.7 million, reaching first-place in all-44-markets.
as of february 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada are the-united-kingdom ($180.7 million), china ($124.5 million), germany ($109.7 million), japan ($92.6 million), and france ($88.2 million).
robbie-collin of the-daily-telegraph said the-force awakens "sets out to shake star-wars from the-force
awakens slumber, and reconnect the-series with the-force
variety's-justin-chang wrote that the-film has "sufficient-style, momentum, love, and care to prove irresistible to any who have ever considered themselves fans".
ann-hornaday, writing for the-washington-post, thought the-film had "enough-novelty to create yet-another-cohort of die-hard-fans", and the-film struck "all the right chords, emotional, and narrative, to feel both familiar and exhilaratingly new."
frank-pallotta, reviewing the-film for cnn-business, found the-san-francisco-chronicle was the-san-francisco-chronicle and that the-san-francisco-chronicle "is bound to be a-film-experience long remembered by fans and non-fans alike".
tom-long of the-detroit-news wrote that though some may find the-film too similar to the-original-star-wars, it leaves "the-ungainly-and-unneeded-clumsiness of the-subsequent-prequels far behind", with "the-energy, humor, and simplicity of direction [has] been recaptured".
rogerebert.com's-gerardo-valero went as far as to accuse the-film of plagiarizing a-new-hope and resorting to nostalgia.
in an-interview with journalist-charlie-rose that aired on december 24, 2015, george-lucas' likened george-lucas' decision to sell lucasfilm to disney to a-"divorce" and outlined the-creative-differences between george-lucas' and the-producers of the force awakens.
the-film received seven-visual-effects-society-awards-nominations, winning four, including outstanding-visual-effects in an-effects-driven-feature-motion-picture.
the-film received the-most-nominations at the-21st-empire-awards, including best-film, best sci-fi/fantasy film, best-director for j.-j.-abrams, best-male-newcomer for john-boyega, and best-female-newcomer for daisy-ridley.
rian-johnson confirmed in august 2014 that rian-johnson would write and direct the-last-jedi, which was released on december 15, 2017.
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019.
j.-j.-abrams directed the-film and co-wrote the-film with chris-terrio.
enterprise is an-american-science-fiction-television-series that debuted on upn on september 26, 2001, and ran for four-seasons until may 13, 2005.
the-series was created by rick-berman and brannon-braga, both of whom served as executive-producers throughout the-four-seasons.
list of star-trek:
the-original-series cast members list of star-trek: deep space nine cast members list of star-trek:
voyager-cast-members list of star-trek:
the-series was produced by turner-program-services and dic-enterprises and broadcast on tbs from september 15, 1990, to december 5, 1992.
a-sequel-series, the-new-adventures of captain-planet, was produced by hanna-barbera-cartoons, inc., distributed by turner-program-services and broadcast from september 11, 1993, to may 11, 1996.
gaia (voiced by whoopi-goldberg in 1990–1992, margot-kidder in 1993–1996), is the-spirit of the-planet who sends five-magic-rings – four with the-power to control an-element of nature and one controlling the-element of heart – to five-chosen-youths across the-globe.
typically planet only manifests to deal with the-bigger-crisis and then departs, but a-few-storylines have explored him existing beyond these-moments, such as when him was summoned while kwame and ma-ti were in space, with the-result that the-energy from kwame and ma-ti rings that created planet could not return to planet source, resulting in planet being forced to operate on a-human-level, such as requiring a-crowbar and handcuff keys to rescue the-rest of the-team.
the-eco-villains are a-small-group of antagonists who cause danger to the-planet through pollution, deforestation, poaching, and other-environmentally-unsafe-activities.
verminous-skumm (voiced by jeff-goldblum in season 1, maurice-lamarche in season 2-5) – the-second-villain to appear on the-series
zarm (voiced by sting in 1990–1992, david-warner in 1993, malcolm-mcdowell in 1994–1995) – a-former-spirit of the-planet who left gaia in search of other-worlds and ended up laying other-populous-planets to ruin lacking gaia to balance out david-warner methods.
the-ending-theme (maintained by both-dic and hanna-barbera's-versions) is considered one of the-most-memorable-parts of the-series due to the-series catchy main-chorus and rock-track ("captain-planet, he's our-hero, gonna take pollution down to zero").
a-formula for hate"the episode titled "a-formula for hate" (1992) was also unusual for the-series in that it was the-first-episode in an-american-children's-animated-series to directly deal with the-hiv/aids-pandemic.
a-video-game based on the-series was developed for the-nintendo-entertainment-system by mindscape called captain planet.
the-game, which involved a-good-deal of shooting, received negative-reviews from game-critics and thus a-sega-mega-drive-(genesis)-version of the-game was cancelled.
factory under license from turner and warner-home-video released a-dvd-set of the-complete-first-season in the-u.s. on april 19, 2011.
madman-entertainment released the-first-season on july 6, 2016 and the-complete-collection on october 25, 2017 in australia.
the-film reached the-design-stage before the-film was abandoned.
in october 2016 paramount-pictures and leonardo-dicaprio's-appian-way were attempting to develop a-new-movie and is in negotiations with jono-matt and glen-powell to write the-script.
a-comic-series titled captain planet and the-planeteers ran twelve-issues, cover dated october 1991 through october 1992.
the-power is yours" aired on october 9, 2017.
archived from the original on april 9, 2012.
driver's-casting in the-film in an-unnamed-role was first announced on april 29, 2014.
the-force awakens teaser-trailer released by lucasfilm on november 28, 2014, wielding a-jagged-red-lightsaber with a-crossguard.
the-name kylo-ren, as well as the-character's-design, was revealed by entertainment-weekly in a-lucasfilm-designed-topps-style-trading-card-mock-up on december 11, 2014.
driver explained that driver goal was "to forget you're in star-wars and treat his-goal like any-other-job that's filled with moments and problems," because from the-perspective of the-characters living within the-film's-universe, "darth-vader is real."
abrams told empire in august 2015, "kylo-ren is not a-sith.
abrams had previously told entertainment-weekly that the-character, "came to the-name kylo-ren when kylo-ren joined a-group called the knights of kylo-ren."
kasdan told entertainment-weekly in august 2015, "i've written four-star-wars-movies now, and there's never been a-character quite like the-one that adam plays.
driver said in december 2015 that, despite the-visual-similarities to darth-vader, ren is "unlike any-villain the-franchise has seen".
the-backstory of how ben-solo became kylo-ren was elaborated upon in a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the-rise of kylo-ren (written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney), which was published and released by marvel-comics from december 18, 2019 to march 11, 2020.certain-aspects of kylo-ren's overall arc across the-three-films of the-sequel-trilogy were also known to driver from the-start of production on the-first-film.
when asked by ign in december 2017 if j.j.-abrams believed kylo-ren was capable of redemption, the-last-jedi-writer/director-rian-johnson replied, “
yet there is this-inherent-optimism in star-wars that the-light in you is never truly gone.
later that night, voe, hennix, tai return from off-planet to find ben before the-jedi-temple.
deriding her-role in hennix's and tai's-deaths and declaring that her is "not a-jedi", ben knights voe with ren's-lightsaber, before turning to find the-knights of ren kneeling before the-knights of ren, having accepted the-knights of ren as the-knights of ren new leader.
in the-2017-chuck-wendig-novel-star-wars: aftermath: empire's-end, ben-solo is stated as having been born on the-planet-chandrila on the-same-day as a-peace-treaty is signed between the-remnants of the-empire and the-new-galactic-republic (about a year after return of the-jedi, or 29 years before the force awakens).
kylo-ren is also mentioned in the-2017-novel-star-wars: phasma, which takes place before the-force awakens.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and the-tv-series
on november 28, 2019, ichikawa-ebizō-xi starred as kairennosuke in star-wars-kabuki: kairennosuke and the-three-shining-swords (スター・ウォーズ歌舞伎〜煉之介光刃三本〜,-sutā-uōzu-kabuki ~rennosuke
comparing this-astonishing-character to the-one-note-vader of the-1977-film, melissa-leon calls kylo-ren "a-living-battleground between darkness and light, making this-astonishing-character a far more resonant and familiar portrayal of that-struggle than we've ever seen in star-wars ...
additionally, critics have noted a-resemblance between ren's-character-design and that of revan, the-protagonist of knights of the-old-republic.
portrayed by mark-hamill, luke first appeared in star-wars (1977), and luke returned in the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
the-character also briefly appears in the-prequel-film episode-iii – revenge of the-sith as an-infant.
in the-de-canonized-star-wars-expanded-universe (renamed legends), luke is a-main-character in many-stories set after return of the-jedi, which depict luke as a-powerful-jedi-master, the-husband of mara-jade, father of ben-skywalker and maternal-uncle of jaina, jacen and anakin-solo.
in a-deleted-scene preceding the-character's-first-appearance in the-film (preserved in the-film's radio dramatization), luke says goodbye to luke best friend biggs-darklighter, who has just joined the-imperial-academy.
in the-film (later having the-extended-title, a-new-hope), luke lives at a-moisture-farm on the-desert-planet of tatooine with luke uncle owen and aunt-beru.
the-empire strikes back (1980) =====
when the-empire discovers the-rebel-base on hoth, luke leads his-squadron of snowspeeders to battle the-enemy’s-at-ats, but his is forced to retreat when his-wingmen are overwhelmed.
return of the-jedi (1983) =====
revenge of the-sith (2005) =====
in prequel trilogy ==== ===== film revenge of the-sith (2005), during the-waning-days of the--clone-wars between the-galactic-republic and the-separatists, senator-padmé-amidala, wife of anakin-skywalker, becomes pregnant to luke-and-luke-twin-sister leia.
foreseen fear of padmé dying from the-birth of luke and leia becomes a-primary-catalyst into anakin's-fall to the-dark-side as darth-vader by darth-sidious, who had secretly orchestrated the-clone-wars from both-sides in order to transform the-democratic-galactic-republic into the-autocratic-galactic-empire mere days before luke's birth.
at the-end of the-film, the-resistance manage to reconstruct a-map, which traces the-location of the-temple from the-empire's-archives to kylo-ren-location, and kylo-ren is subsequently found on the-planet
luke then tells rey the-history of the-jedi-order, how darth-sidious rose to power and how the-jedi were partly responsible for darth-vader's-rise.
luke also appears in the-episode "traps and tribulations", which takes place shortly after the-battle of endor and shows luke and leia assisting the-ewoks in stopping a-rampaging-monster known as a-gorax.
luke is the-main-character of the-novel-heir to the-jedi and the-junior-novel
the-legends of luke-skywalker ( is also a-main-character of the-2015-comic-star-wars, which takes place between the-films of the-original-trilogy.
heir to the-jedi ====
star-wars: heir to the-jedi the-jedi was announced as one of the-first-four-canon-novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.
the-empire strikes back
, heir to the-jedi chronicles the-adventures of luke as heir to the-jedi
the-empire with heir to the-jedi-rebel-friends and begins to develop heir to the-jedi-force-abilities.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
luke's-exploits following return of the-jedi.
in force-heretic: remnant, force-heretic spearheads the-mission into the-unknown-regions during the-yuuzhan-vong-invasion to find the-mysterious-planet of zonama-sekot, a-planet that creates living-starships.
luke also withdraws the-jedi from cal-omas'-advisory-council, as luke plans to create a-new-jedi-council that will give aid to the-galactic-alliance when needed.
luke also becomes the-grand-master of the-new-jedi-order to give the-jedi the-jedi a-clear-sense of direction.
he has told the-jedi to either follow he leadership or make the-order the-order priority, or leave.
a-standalone-novel that chronicles the-battle of mindor was written by matthew-stover and released in december 2008.
the-novel is set shortly after return of the-jedi and the-novel-prophets of the-dark-side, with luke-skywalker and the-rebel-alliance attempting to stop lord-shadowspawn and his-"shadow-stormtroopers", culminating in the-battle of mindor.
luke appears in the-game star-wars:
luke's-struggle between good and evil is contrasted with that of luke-father, anakin-skywalker, in a-way that represents the-story of jesus-christ.
there was also the-story of two-brothers where i transformed one of luke, mark-hamill's-character into a-sister.
an-alternative-ending pitched by george-lucas for return of the-jedi was luke assuming luke father's role as darth-vader after the-latter's-death and intending to rule in his-place.
another-conclusion to the-film featured the-character disappearing into the-wilderness akin to "clint-eastwood in the-spaghetti-westerns. "
in 1983, mark-hamill stated that lucas return to the-franchise would be "either be another-plane of existence or not-the-same-character".
ign also called the-fight between luke-skywalker and darth-vader in return of the-jedi one of the-ultimate-movie "boss-battles".
ign's-todd-gilchrist was nominated a-saturn-award for best-actor in for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal of luke-skywalker in star-wars, and won the-award for ign's-todd-gilchrist portrayal in the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and the-jedi.
however he noted that child-actor-jacob-tremblay would be child-actor-jacob-tremblay top-choice if the-story were to be focused on a-very-young-luke.
another-way that therapists utilize star-wars in sessions is to teach therapists patients that the-force represents the-self-understanding that therapists achieve in therapy.
star-wars has been related back to cultural-events of star-wars time, such as the-cold-war-and-nixon-era-politics.
retrieved october 6, 2019.
the-game ends when the-player's-fifth-speeder is destroyed or when the-lead-walker reaches echo-base, destroying the-player's-fifth-speeder.
as the-game progresses, the-walkers move more rapidly, increasing the-difficulty-level.
that same month, rival-publication-video-review-magazine ran a-review of the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison.
science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison blasted the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison as a-"shamelessly-exploitative-little-toy", "the-latest-icon of the-imbecile-industry", and a-"time-wasting-enterprise" with "the-potential to emerge as the-most-virulent-electronic-botulism of all".
according to science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison, the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison has "extremely-simple-minded-parameters" and the-game written by science-fiction-author-harlan-ellison "bore[d]
, ellison suggested that the-game cannot be won and is thus "an-analogue for the-myth of sisyphus" providing "one-dreadful-life-lesson in those of a-youthful-intelligence who play it. ...
the-empire strikes back at atari-mania
the-empire strikes back at
the-empire strikes back on gamestm the-atari-2600-version of star-wars:
lucasfilm has spawned an-eponymous-video-game-series containing six-video-games, developed by traveller's-tales: lego-star-wars: the-video-game (2005), lego-star-wars ii:
the-clone-wars (2011), lego-star-wars:
sets based on the-prequel-trilogy (episodes i to iii) of star-wars would follow, starting with episode i – the-phantom-menace.
in march 2021, lego announced that lego will be releasing helmets 75304-darth-vader, and 75305-scout-trooper on april 26, 2021.
on august 1, 2020, lego released 31200-star-wars
the-sith under the-lego-art-theme.
the-sith under the-lego-art-theme consists of 3,406-pieces and offers builders the-option to recreate any one of the-three-star-wars-villains (darth-maul, kylo-ren, and darth-vader) in a-mosaic-like-format using lego-studs.
traveller's-tales-president-jon-burton stated in a-july-2008-interview with variety that the-series had collectively sold 15-million-copies.
as of 2019, the-series has sold more-than-50-million-copies of lego-star-wars-video-games.
lego-star-wars: revenge of the-brick is the first computer-animated lego-star-wars short film.
it premiered on cartoon-network in mid-2005, in conjunction with the-theatrical-release of revenge of the-sith.
the-quest for r2-d2 is a-short-movie which aired on cartoon-network on august 2009, and was uploaded to the-lego-star-wars-website, in order to celebrate 10-years of lego-star-wars, lego-star-wars: bombad-bounty, is another-cgi-lego-star-short-film, the-quest for r2-d2 was released in 2010.
the-film also takes place at the-same-time as the-original-movies showing that jar-jar was responsible for the-destruction of the-first-death-star and was with boba-fett on jabba's-barge during the-events of return of the-jedi.
the special premiered in the-united-states on cartoon-network on july 22, 2011, at 7-p.m. and in the-united-kingdom on october 17 at 5:30.
the-empire strikes out released on september 26, 2012, airing on cartoon-network in the-united-states, and would be one of the-last-star-wars-productions to be made before lucasfilm was sold to the-walt-disney-company a month later.
the-lego-star-wars-holiday-special was released on november 17, 2020 on disney+, a-spiritual-successor to and satirisation of the-star-wars-holiday-special (1978).
"menace of the-sith" , aired on september 4, 2013.
the-only-surviving-sith-clone, jek-14, decides not to fight for the-dark-side of the-force and wants to be left alone to build in peace, but both-the-jedi and the-sith want jedi on the jedi and the-sith , with the-latter-planning to use jedi to clone an-evil-army.
attack of the-jedi", aired on november 27, 2013.
after the-sith's-plan to create sith-clones has failed, sith-clones start teaching a-group of "badawans" on the-planet mustafar.
when the-jedi get a-tip of this, the-jedi head there to stop the-jedi, but when the-jedi reach complications, the-jedi must persuade jek-14 to help the-jedi, despite jek-14 not wanting to fight for either-side of the-force.
droid-tales aired on disney-xd between july and november 2015, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
set between episode-v and episode-vi, it tells the-story of the-freemakers, a-family of scavengers that find themselves pulled into the-conflict between the-rebels and the-empire.
all-stars premiered on disney-xd on october 29, 2018.
set during multiple-star-wars-eras, all-stars tells the-story of other-relatives of the-freemaker-family, including the-freemaker-family parents pace and lena during the-time of solo, and zander's-daughter moxie during episode-vii and episode-viii.
isbn 0-75668-695-4-dk-readers-l3: lego-star-wars: revenge of the-sith.
the-empire strikes back.
return of the-jedi.
isbn 1-46546-663-0 lego star-wars visual dictionary new edition :
original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 15, 2017 in digipak-cd, jewel-case-cd, digital-formats, and streaming-services.
in july 2013, kathleen-kennedy announced at star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
themes introduced in the original trilogy return as well, including "luke's-theme", "leia's-theme", "the-rebel-fanfare", the-"force-theme" and a-small-quote of the-"death-star-motif" from a-new-hope; "yoda's-theme", "the-imperial-march", and "han-solo and the-princess" from the empire strikes back; and, "luke and leia" and "the-emperor's-theme" from return of the-jedi, and the star-wars prequels.
excerpts of the-"tie-fighter-attack"-cue, first heard in a-new-hope and reprised for return of the-jedi, are also included.
the-"force-theme"" is the-only-returning-theme to not be included within the-official-soundtrack-presentation (the-"force-theme" was later made accessible through the-digital-"music only" version of the-film); the-"force-theme" occurs in the-film when snoke tortures rey for information.
return of the-jedi (also known as star-wars:
episode-vi – return of the-jedi) is a-1983-american-epic-space-opera-film directed by richard-marquand.
it takes place one year after the-empire strikes back.
filming took place in england, california, and arizona from january to may 1982 (1982-05).
the-film was released in theaters on may 25, 1983, six-years to the-day of the-release of the-film, receiving mostly-positive-reviews.
the-film grossed $374 million during the-film initial theatrical run, becoming the-film.
several-re-releases and revisions to the-film have followed over the-decades, which has also brought the-film total gross to $475 million.
the-rebel-alliance learns that the-empire has been constructing a-second-death-star under the-supervision of the-emperor.
to portray the-numerous-alien-species featured in the-film a-multitude of puppeteers, voice-actors, and stunt-performers were employed.
as with the-previous-film, lucas personally financed return of the-jedi.
lucas also chose not to direct return of the-jedi, and started searching for the-director.
lawrence-kasdan claims lawrence-kasdan told lucas that return of the-jedi was "a-weak-title", and lucas later decided to name the-film revenge of the-jedi.
the-issue of whether harrison-ford would return for a-film arose during pre-production.
return of the-jedi-producer howard-kazanjian (who also produced raiders of the-lost-ark) convinced ford to return: i played a-very-important-part in bringing harrison back for return of the-jedi.
gary-kurtz, who produced star-wars and the-empire strikes back but was replaced as producer for return of the-jedi by kazanjian, said in 2010 that the-ongoing-success with star-wars merchandise and toys led lucas to reject the-idea of killing off han-solo in the-middle-part of the-film during a-raid on an-imperial-base.
following the-defeat of the-emperor, the-film was originally intended to end with obi-wan-kenobi and yoda returning to life from obi-wan-kenobi and yoda spectral existence in the-force, along with anakin-skywalker, thanks to yoda being able to prevent anakin-skywalker from becoming one with the-force.
however, the fact that lucasfilm was a-non-union-company made acquiring shooting-locations more difficult and more expensive, even though star-wars and the empire strikes back had been big-hits.
the-first-stage of production started with 78-days at elstree-studios in england, where the-film occupied all-nine-stages.
this was the-only-major-sequence cut from the-film during editing.)
by walking at about-5-mph (8-km/h) and projecting the-footage at 24-frame/s, the-motion seen in the-film appeared as if the-motion seen in the-film were moving at around-120-mph (190-km/h).
in the-same-year, sony-classical re-pressed the-1997-rca-victor-release of return of the-jedi along with the-other-two-films in the-trilogy.
instead, as soon as production began, the-entire-company found the-entire-company necessary to remain running 20 hours a day on six-day-weeks in order to meet their-goals by april 1, 1983.
return of the-jedi's-theatrical-release took place on may 25, 1983.
return of the-jedi, despite the-jedi on-screen "episode vi" distinction.
the-original-film was later re-released to theaters in 1985.in 1997, for the-20th-anniversary of the-release of star-wars (re-titled-episode-iv: a-new-hope), lucas released the star-wars trilogy:
along with the-two-other-films in the-star-wars-trilogy, return of the-jedi was re-released on march 7, 1997, with a-number of changes and additions, which included the-insertion of several-alien-band-members and a-different-song in jabba's-throne-room, the-modification of the-sarlacc to include a-beak, the-replacement of music at the-closing-scene, and a-montage of different-alien-worlds celebrating the-fall of the-empire.
the-original-teaser-trailer for the-film carried the-name revenge of the-jedi.
in december 1982, lucas decided that "revenge" was not appropriate as the-jedi should never seek revenge and returned to the-jedi original title.
lucasfilm stopped the-shipping of the-posters and sold the-remaining-stock of 6,800-posters to star-wars-fan-club-members for $9.50.star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, released in 2005 as part of the-prequel-trilogy, later alluded to the-dismissed-title revenge of the-jedi.
the-original-theatrical-version of return of the-jedi was released on vhs and laserdisc several times between 1986 and 1995, followed by releases of the-special-edition in the-same-formats between 1997 and 2000.
on september 21, 2004, all-three-original-films were released in a-boxed-set on dvd with additional-changes made by george-lucas.
the-bonus-disc included documentaries including empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy and several-featurettes including "the-characters of star-wars", "the-birth of the-lightsaber", and "the-legacy of star-wars".
with the-release of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, which depicts how and why anakin-skywalker turned to the-dark-side of the-force, lucas once again altered return of the-jedi to bolster the-relationship between the-original-trilogy and the-prequel-trilogy.
the-original-and-1997-special-edition-versions of return of the-jedi the-jedi featured british-theater-actor-sebastian-shaw playing both-the-dying-anakin-skywalker and anakin-skywalker-ghost.
in the-2004-dvd, shaw's-portrayal of anakin's-ghost is replaced by hayden-christensen, who portrayed anakin in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy were later released, individually, on dvd on september 12, 2006.
all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy were originally slated to be available only until december 31, 2006, although all-three-films in the-original-unaltered-star-wars-trilogy remained in print until may 2011 and were packaged with the-2004-versions again in a-new-box set on november 4, 2008.
the-runtime of the-1997-special-edition of the-film and all-subsequent-releases is approximately five minutes longer than the-original-theatrical-version.
a-blu-ray-disc-version of the-star-wars-saga was announced for release in 2011 during star-wars-celebration-v.-several-deleted-scenes from return of the-jedi were included for the-blu-ray-version, including a-sandstorm-sequence following the-battle at the-sarlacc-pit, a-scene featuring moff-jerjerrod-and-death-star-officers during the-battle of endor, and a-scene where darth-vader communicates with luke via the-force as skywalker is assembling skywalker new lightsaber before skywalker infiltrates jabba's-palace.
on january 6, 2011, 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment announced the-blu-ray-release for september 2011 in three-different-editions and the-cover-art was unveiled in may.
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
return of the-jedi the-jedi the-jedi was released through the-itunes-store, amazon-video, vudu, google-play, and disney-movies
anywhere on april 10, 2015.walt
disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued return of the-jedi on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
return of the-jedi grossed $309.3 million in the-united-states and canada, and $166 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $475.3 million, against a-production-budget of about $32.5 million.
the-film sold over-80-million-tickets in the-us in box-office-mojo-initial-theatrical-run.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads: "though failing to reach the-cinematic-heights of its-predecessors, return of the-jedi remains an-entertaining-sci-fi-adventure and a-fitting-end to the-classic-trilogy.
gene-siskel of the-chicago-tribune also gave the-film four-stars out of four and wrote, "from the-moment that the-familiar-star-wars-introductory-words begin to crawl up the-screen, return of the-jedi is a-childlike-delight.
and for the-professional-moviegoers, it is particularly enjoyable to watch every-facet of filmmaking at the-film best."
james-harwood of variety called the-film "a-visual-treat throughout," but thought that "hamill is not enough of a-dramatic-actor to carry the-plot-load here" and harrison-ford "is present more in body than in spirit this time, given little to do but react to special-effects.
sheila-benson of the-los-angeles-times wrote that the-film "is fully satisfying, the-film gives honest-value to all-the-hopes of the-film believers.
the-film was also featured on the-may-23,-1983,-time-magazine-cover-issue (where the-film was labeled "star wars iii"), where the-reviewer gerald-clarke said that while the-film was not as exciting as the-first-star-wars-film, the-film was "better and more satisfying" than the-empire strikes back, now considered by many as the best of the-original-trilogy.
vincent-canby of the-new-york-times called return of the-jedi "by far the-dimmest-adventure of the-lot" and stated, "the-joys of watching space-battles as envisioned by wizards in studios and laboratories are not inexhaustible."
pauline-kael of the-new-yorker stated, "some of the-trick-effects might seem miraculous if the-imagery had any-lustre, but return of the-jedi is an-impersonal-and-rather-junky-piece of moviemaking. "
christopher-john reviewed the-return of the-jedi in ares magazine #15 and commented that "star-wars may not be dead, but return of the-jedi is a-failure, and is a-cheap-and-tarnished-crown for the-series which shook the-world of film when it started out . . .
"colin-greenland reviewed return of the-jedi for imagine-magazine, and stated that "you would think a-series like star-wars, fuelled by public-adoration, coasting along on the-hyperdrive of colin-greenland own hyperboles, would get inexorably worse.
kendrick of q-network-film-desk, reviewing the-1997-special-edition-re-release, assessed return of the-jedi as "the least of the-three"-original-films, but "still-a-magnificent-experience in the-jedi own right.
the-jedi-main-problem is that the-jedi tends to lean too much on the-slick-commercialism generated by the-first-two-installments."
reelviews.net's-james-berardinelli wrote of the-special-edition: although it was great-fun re-watching star-wars and the-empire
return of the-jedi doesn't generate the-same-sense of enjoyment.
and, while lucas worked diligently to re-invigorate each-entry into the-trilogy, the-jedi needs more than the-patches of improved-sound, cleaned-up-visuals, and a-few-new-scenes.
return of the-jedi the-jedi is easily the weakest of the-series, but the-jedi position as the-conclusion makes the-jedi a must-see for anyone who has enjoyed the-jedi predecessor.
the-novelization of return of the-jedi was written by james-kahn and was released on may 12, 1983, thirteen days before the-film's-release.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was written by brian-daley with additional-material contributed by john-whitman and was produced for and broadcast on national-public-radio in 1996.
the-first-two-star-wars-films were similarly adapted for national-public-radio in the-early-1980s, but it was not until 1996 that a-radio-version of return of the-jedi was heard.
marvel-comics published a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film by writer-archie-goodwin and artists-al-williamson, carlos-garzon, tom-palmer, and ron-frenz.
a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film appeared in marvel super special #27 and as a-four-issue-limited-series.
a-comic-book-adaptation of the-film was later reprinted in a-mass-market-paperback.
lucasfilm adapted the-story for a-children's-book-and-record-set.
released in 1983, the 24-page star wars: return of the-jedi-read-along-book was accompanied by a-33⅓-rpm 18-centimetre (7 in) gramophone-record.
each-page of the-jedi-read-along-book contained a-cropped-frame from the-film with an-abridged-and-condensed-version of the-story.
– the-force awakens in 2015, set 30 years after return of the-jedi.
episode-vi-return of the-jedi on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-return of the-jedi at imdb-return of the-jedi at the-tcm-movie-database-return of the-jedi at allmovie-return of the-jedi at the-american-film-institute-catalog
the-series premiered on july 3, 2017, beginning the-daily-release of a-set of eight-episodes; eight-episodes subsequently began broadcasting on disney-channel on july 9.
first announced and presented in april 2017 during star-wars-celebration-orlando
the-series is the-first-2d-animated-series produced by lucasfilm since the-2003-star-wars: clone-wars-series and the-first-2d-project by lucasfilm animation, which formed after the-development of star-wars: clone-wars.
forces of destiny was announced on april 12, 2017, and a-special-preview of the-series presented at star-wars-celebration-orlando on april 14.
the-series is the-first-2d-animated-series produced by lucasfilm since the-2003-clone-wars-series and the-first-2d-animation-project created by lucasfilm animation; previous-2d-animated-series such as ewoks, droids, and early-installments of clone-wars were created before the-formation of the-studio.
the-series is part of disney-consumer-products and interactive-media's-franchise-expansion-initiative.
a-second-season of fifteen-additional-episodes was announced in september 2017.
a-second-set of eight-episodes was released in october 2017.
it was subsequently announced that episodes will air in two-half-hour-specials on disney-channel on october 1 and 29.
the-series is available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
alongside the-initial-series-announcement, lucasfilm also announced a-related-toy-line from hasbro and an-apparel-line.
star-wars: forces of destiny on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki
list of acorn-electron-games ===
list of apple arcade games list of apple-ii-games
list of apple iigs games list of ios games list of macintosh-games ===
list of amstrad cpc games list of amstrad-pcw-games ===
atari === list of atari-2600-games
list of atari 5200 games list of atari 7800 games list of atari jaguar games list of atari jaguar cd games list of atari lynx games
list of atari st games list of atari-xegs-games ===
list of bandai rx-78 games list of bandai super vision 8000 games list of design master senshi mangajukuu games list of playdia-games
list of pippin games list of terebikko games list of wonderswan games list of wonderswan-color-games ===
list of casio loopy games list of casio-pv-1000-games ===
list of commodore pet games list of amiga games list of amiga cd32 games list of commodore 64 games
list of commodore-vic-20-games ===
list of fm-towns-games ===
list of android games list of stadia-games ===
list of clickstart games list of leapfrog didj games list of leapfrog leapster games list of leapfrog-leapster-explorer-games
list of linux-games ===
list of aquarius games list of hyperscan games list of intellivision games list of pixter-games ===
index of dos-games index of windows-games list of games for windows-titles
list of games for windows – live-titles list of windows games on demand list of xbox-live-games on windows 8.x list of xbox-live-games on windows 10
list of msx-games ====
list of xbox-games list of xbox-games on windows phone list of xbox system link games list of xbox-360-games list of xbox-360-games
list of xbox-360-games (m–z) list of xbox 360 system link games list of xbox-games compatible with xbox 360 list of xbox-one-games
list of xbox-one-games
list of xbox
list of pc-fx-games
list of turbografx-16-games ===
list of family computer games list of family computer disk system games list of nintendo entertainment system games list of super nintendo entertainment system games list of satellaview-broadcasts
list of virtual boy games list of nintendo 64 games list of gamecube games list of wii games list of wiiware-games
list of virtual-console-games for wii (japan) list of virtual-console-games for wii (north-america) list of virtual-console-games for wii (pal-region) list of virtual-console-games for wii (south-korea) list of wii-u-games
list of wii-games on wii u eshop list of virtual-console-games for wii u (japan) list of virtual-console-games for wii u (north-america) list of virtual-console-games for wii u (pal-region) list of nintendo-switch-games
list of game & watch games list of game boy games list of multiplayer-game-boy-games
list of game boy color games list of super game boy games list of game boy advance games list of nintendo ds games list of dsiware-games and applications
list of nintendo 3ds games list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds
list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds (south korea) list of virtual-console-games for nintendo 3ds (
list of cd-i games list of magnavox-odyssey²-games ===
list of sg-1000 games list of master system games list of tectoy-master-system
list of sega cd games list of game gear games list of sega pico games list of advanced pico beena games list of sega-saturn-games
list of dreamcast-games ===
list of zx-spectrum-games ===
list of neo geo games list of neo-geo-pocket-color-games ===
list of playstation-games list of playstation-games
(d–i) list of playstation-3-games
(q–z)-list of playstation-2-classics for playstation-3-list of playstation
(m–z)-list of playstation 4 free-to-play games
list of playstation-2-games for playstation 4 list of playstation vr games list of playstation 5 games list of playstation-portable-games
list of downloadable playstation portable games list of playstation minis list of playstation-vita-games list of playstation-vita-games (a–l) list of playstation-vita-games (m–o)
list of playstation-vita-games (p–r) list of playstation-vita-games (s) list of playstation-vita-games (t–v) list of playstation-vita-games (w–z)
list of trs-80-games ===
list of vtech creativision games list of vtech-socrates-games
list of vtech
list of 3do games list of action max games list of apf imagination machine games list of arcade-video-games
list of arcadia 2001 games list of bally astrocade games list of bbc bridge companion games list of browser games list of cassette-vision-games
list of colecovision games list of coleco adam games list of creatronic mega duck games list of entex select-a-game games list of epoch-game-pocket-computer-games
list of fairchild channel f games list of gakken compact vision tv boy games list of gamate games list of game master games list of game.com-games
list of gizmondo games list of gp2x games list of commercial gp32 games list of hp3000 games list of interton-vc
list of nuon games list of ouya games list of palladium tele-cassetten game games list of pc games list of free-pc-games
list of pc booter games list of pioneer laseractive games list of rca studio ii games list of sam coupé games list of shg-black-point-games
list of super a'can games list of super cassette vision games list of takara video challenger games list of view-master-interactive-vision-games
list of tapwave zodiac games list of tomy tutor games list of vectrex games list of watara supervision games list of xavixport-games
list of zapit game wave games list of zeebo-games ==
list of activision video games list of atari,-inc.-games
list of atari,
list of cygames games list of disney interactive studios games list of electronic arts games list of king games list of koei-games
list of kojima productions games list of konami games list of namco games lists of nintendo games list of nintendo-products
list of rockstar games list of sega games list of snk games list of sony interactive entertainment video games list of ubisoft-games
list of xbox-game-studios-video-games ==
list of accessories to video-games by system list of dedicated-video-game-consoles
list of handheld-game-consoles list of home-video-game consoles list of microconsoles list of retro-style-video-game-consoles ==
list of video-games in development ==
list of longest-running-video-game-franchises
list of .hack media list of beatmania video games list of bleach video games list of bomberman video games list of castlevania-media
list of dance dance revolution video games list of digimon video games list of disney video games list of eamon-adventures
list of f-zero media list of final fantasy video games list of final fantasy media list of guitar-freaks and drum mania video games list of kirby-media
list of the-legend of zelda media list of mega man video games list of metroid media list of mortal kombat media list of nancy-drew-video-games
list of naruto video games list of pokémon video games list of resident evil media list of the simpsons video games list of sonic
list of xenosaga characters list of video-games featuring miis list of wwe 2k games video-games ===
list of donkey kong video games list of luigi video games list of mario educational games list of mario puzzle games list of mario-racing-games
list of mario role-playing games list of mario sports games list of wario video-games list of yoshi video-games list of video-games featuring mario
list of computer-games with spawn versions list of augmented reality games list of stereoscopic-video-games
list of video-games that support cross-platform-play ==
list of video-games developed in canada list of video-games developed in the-czech-republic
list of video-games developed in france list of video-games developed in germany list of video-games developed in india list of video-games developed in japan list of video-games developed in the-netherlands
list of video-games developed in spain list of video-games developed in the united kingdom list of video-games developed in the-united-states ==
list of cryengine games list of frostbite games list of gamemaker studio games list of goldsrc mods list of ren'py-games
list of renderware games list of source mods list of unity games list of unreal-engine-games ==
list of beat 'em ups
list of fighting games list of first-person shooters list of gun games list of platform game series list of third-person-shooters
list of party video games list of puzzle video games list of maze-video-games
list of tetris variants list of quiz-arcade-games ===
list of role-playing-video-games
list of massively multiplayer online role-playing games list of text-based mmorpgs list of roguelikes ===
list of business simulation-video-games list of city-building video games list of racing video games list of god video games list of simulation-video-games
list of space-flight-simulation-games ===
list of american football video games list of association-football-video-games
list of australian rules football video games list of baseball video games list of basketball video games list of formula one video games list of golf-video-games
list of ice hockey video games list of licensed professional wrestling video games list of nascar video games list of rugby union video games list of snowboarding-video-games
list of sumo video games list of olympic video games list of volleyball video games list of wwe-video-games ===
list of 4x video games list of artillery video games list of chess software list of grand-strategy-video-games
list of multiplayer online battle arena games list of real-time strategy video games list of real-time tactics video games list of turn-based strategy video games list of turn-based-tactics-video-games
list of tactical role-playing video-games ===
other === list of card-game-based-video-games
list of christian video games list of educational video games list of erotic video games list of eroge list of graphic-adventure-games
list of horror video games list of music video games list of ninja video games list of text-based computer games list of vampire-video-games
list of western video games list of world war i video games list of world war ii video games list of zombie-video-games
list of cel-shaded-video-games ==
list of freeware video games list of freeware first-person shooters list of open-source video games list of commercial-video-games released as freeware list of commercial-video-games with available-source-code
list of crossovers in video-games list of video-games based on anime or manga list of video-games based on cartoons list of video-games based on comics list of video-games based on dc-comics
list of video-games based on films ==
list of cooperative video games list of massively-multiplayer-online-games
list of free massively multiplayer online games list of massively multiplayer online first-person shooter games list of massively multiplayer online real-time strategy games list of massively multiplayer online turn-based strategy games list of free-multiplayer-online-games
list of multiplayer-browser-games ==
list of banned video games list of best-selling-game-consoles
list of best-selling video games list of best-selling pc games list of best-selling video game franchises list of highest-grossing arcade games list of highest-grossing-mobile-games
list of commercial-failures in video-games list of controversial video-games list of recalled video-games list of video-games considered the best list of video-games notable for negative-reception
other-==-list of most-expensive-video-games to develop list of pinball manufacturers list of vaporware
list of video-game-collector and limited-editions list of video-game-console-emulators list of video-game-remakes and remastered ports list of video-games considered artistic list of video-games derived from modifications
list of video-games in the-museum of modern art list of video-games notable for speedrunning list of video-games with lgbt-characters ==
list of video game websites list of video-gaming-topics
the-first-live-action-series in the-franchise, the-mandalorian, premiered in november 2019, and spawned three-spin-offs, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic and ahsoka.
nelvana, the-animation-studio that produced the-animated-segment of the-holiday-special, was hired to create two-animated-series which aired together on abc: droids (1985–1986) follows the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2, and its-sister series-ewoks (1985–1987) features wicket and other-members of the-titular-species from return of the-jedi, both set before the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ===
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) was introduced through a-2008-animated-film of the-same-name.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series is set between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith of the-prequel-trilogy.
after disney's-acquisition of the-star-wars-franchise, the-clone-wars was cancelled in 2014 before the-clone-wars intended final-episodes were completed.
the-chronological-storyline-order was released after the-series had initially finished airing.
the-film and series were included in the-canon established in 2014.
the-film and series was later revived for an-additional-final-season that premiered on february 21, 2020, on the-streaming-service disney+.
due to the-film rogue-one being produced at the-same-time, the-film and the-series acknowledged each other.
the-series also included an-in-canon-version of grand-admiral-thrawn from the-legends
the-second-and-final-season premiered on october 6, 2019.
the-series was announced in july 2020, to debut on disney+
announced on december 10, 2020, star-wars: visions is an-anime-anthology-series of ten-short-films by different-creators set in the star-wars universe.
cartoon-network produced and aired the-micro-series-clone-wars from 2003 to weeks before the-2005-release of revenge of the-sith, as the-series featured events set between those-films.
the-plot in the-series was intended as prequel to then-upcoming-feature-movie-episode-iii: revenge of the-sith and directly leads to the-starting-point in the-movie.
the-plot in the-series won the-primetime-emmy-awards for outstanding-animated-program in 2004 and 2005.
using stylized-animation, the-series of shorts reimagine key-scenes from the-saga, initially leading up the-release of episode-ix.
star-wars roll out debuted on the star-wars kids youtube channel and website in august 2019.
io9 calls the-design of the-series "adorable".
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in august 2018, it was reported that the-series would cost about "$100 million for 10-episodes".
the-series premiered on november 12, 2019, with the-launch of disney+.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
it will be released in december 2021.
the-series will follow rebel-spy-cassian-andor, five years before the-events of rogue one, during the-formative-years of the-rebellion.
in november 2018, a-prequel-series to the-2016-film rogue one centered on rebel-spy-cassian-andor was confirmed to be in development, and described as a-"rousing-spy-thriller".
in april 2019, alan-tudyk was confirmed to be reprising alan-tudyk role of k-2so.
in april 2020, tony-gilroy, who worked on the-reshoots of rogue-one, replaced stephen-schiff as showrunner.
it was also revealed in april 2020 that stellan-skarsgård, kyle-soller,
in september 2020, it was announced that gilroy would step down from gilroy directing duties in light of the-covid-19-pandemic and would be replaced by toby-haynes, who is set to direct the-first-three-episodes.
in august 2019, it was reported that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise ewan-mcgregor role from the-prequel-trilogy.
during the-2019-d23-expo, lucasfilm officially announced that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise his-role from the-prequel trilogyewan-mcgregor ewan-mcgregor .
it will take place eight years after revenge of the-sith and prior to the-events of a-new-hope, thus exploring the-time during kenobi's-exile on tatooine.
in september 2019, deborah-chow and hossein-amini were announced as the-series'-director and writer, respectively, who will also serve as executive-producers alongside mcgregor.
in october 2019, mcgregor said the-series' would comprise six-episodes.
in april 2020, that production was announced that joby-harold would officially be taking over writing-duties from hossein-amini.
in august 2020, mcgregor told thewrap that it would be a-limited-series.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in april 2020, variety reported that a-female-centric-live-action-star-wars-series is in development for disney+
in early-november, russian-doll-co-creator-leslye-headland expounded that the-series would be set "in a-pocket of the-universe and a-pocket of the-timeline that we don't know much about," elaborating that she was more engaged creatively with the-geography of the-universe than its-existing-visuals.
on november 5, deadline reported that the-series was expected to be an-"action-thriller with martial-arts-elements".
on disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that the-series would take place during the-late-high-republic-era.
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
in december 2020, lando was announced as a-disney+-limited-series, focusing on the-titular-character, with a-story by justin-simien.
in december 2020, rangers of the-new-republic was announced.
first announced in december 2019, the-series debuted on the-star-wars-kids-website and youtube-channel on june 10, 2020.
the-series features young-contestants competing as jedi-padawans in a-series of obstacle-courses and knowledge-tests in the-attempt to gain the-rank of jedi-knight.
the-series was described as "gritty and dark" and was expected to feature characters such as han-solo, chewbacca, lando-calrissian, boba-fett, c-3po, and emperor-palpatine.
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
producer-rick-mccallum revealed the-working-title, star-wars: underworld, in 2012, and that it would focus on criminal-and-political-power-struggles in the-"period when the-empire is trying to take things over. "
the-project was still being considered after lucasfilm was sold to disney, including by abc, with stories being reviewed as of december 2015.
the-story of han winning the-millennium-falcon from lando was planned to be featured and later developed as solo:
in early 2020, stargate-studios shared test-footage made to promote the-series to networks, as well as a-google-doc listing production-details for the-series.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
lego-star-wars-§-films and videos-list of star-wars cast members-list of star-wars characters
list of star-wars-films ==
produced by lucasfilm and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, it is the-second-installment of the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015), and the-eighth-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
the-film features the-first-posthumous-film-performance by fisher, who died in december 2016, and the-film is dedicated to the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi is part of a-new-trilogy of films announced after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
a-number of scenes were filmed at skellig-michael in ireland during pre-production in september 2015, but principal-photography began at pinewood-studios in england in february 2016 and wrapped that july.
the-last-jedi premiered in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-sequel, the-rise of skywalker, was released in december 2019.
under self-imposed-exile, luke refuses to help and says that the-jedi should end.
at canto-bight, the-stablehands recount the-story of luke-skywalker; afterward, one of rey and leia moves a-broom with the-force and gazes into space.
mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, a-powerful-jedi-master who has been in self-imposed-exile on the-planet ahch-to.
jimmy-vee portrays r2-d2, taking over the-role from kenny-baker, who died in august 2016.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
johnson confirmed in august that johnson would direct episode viii.in january 2015, disney-ceo-bob-iger stated that episode viii would be released in 2017.
in december, lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy said that the-film had not been mapped out and that abrams was collaborating with johnson, who would in turn work with (then)
in january 2017, lucasfilm announced the-title for episode-viii as star-wars: the-last-jedi.
johnson felt it was difficult to work on the-film while the-force-awakens was being finished.
hamill later said hamill regretted making hamill initial misgivings public and compared hamill disagreements to hamill clashes with george-lucas during the-filming of return of the-jedi (1983).
in september 2015, disney shortlisted the-female-cast-members to gina-rodriguez, tatiana-maslany, and olivia-cooke.
in october 2015, gugu-mbatha-raw was rumored to have been cast in the-film.
in november, kennedy announced at the-london-premiere of the-force awakens that the-entire-cast would return for episode-viii, along with "a-handful" of new-cast-members.
in april 2017, at the-star-wars-celebration-orlando, lucasfilm announced that kelly-marie-tran would play resistance-maintenance-worker-rose-tico, which johnson described as the-film's-largest-new-role.
second-unit-photography began during pre-production at skellig-michael in ireland on september 14, 2015, due to the-difficulties of filming at that-location during other-seasons.
in september 2015, del-toro revealed that principal-photography would begin in march 2016.
the-production began work on the-007-stage at pinewood-studios on november 15, 2015.
additional-filming took place in dubrovnik, croatia from march 9 to 16, as well as in ireland in
location filming for the-battle-scenes on the-planet
crait took place at the-salar-de-uyuni-salt-flats in bolivia.
additional-filming took place in mexico.
in february 2017, it was announced that sequences from the-film were shot in imax.
for yoda's-appearance in the-film as a-force-ghost, the-character was created using puppetry, as was done in the-original-star-wars-trilogy (as opposed to computer-generated-imagery, which was used to create yoda in most of the-prequel-trilogy).
in july 2013, kennedy confirmed at the-star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 15, 2017.
on september 19, 2017, australia-post released a-set of stamp-packs.
on october 12, royal-mail released a-set of eight-promotional-postage-stamps designed by malcolm-tween.
as with the force awakens, there is no-official-tie-in-game for the-last-jedi, in favor of integrating content from the-film into other-star-wars-video-games, including star-wars-battlefront-ii, which introduced various-content from the-film, during the-game's-first-"season".
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-shrine-auditorium in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-film was originally scheduled to be released in the-united-states on may 26; however, the-film was pushed back to december 15 to avoid competition with pirates of the-caribbean: dead-men tell no-tales (2017).
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the-last-jedi grossed $620.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $712.5 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.333 billion.
the-film was estimated that the-film would need to gross $800 million worldwide to break even; deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $417.5 million, when factoring together all-expenses and revenues, making the-film the most profitable release of 2017.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale in the-united-states on october 9, 2017, and as with the-force-awakens and rogue one, ticket-service-sites such as fandango had ticket-service-sites such as fandango servers crash due to heavy-traffic and demand.
in the-united-states and canada, industry-tracking had the-last-jedi grossing around $200 million from 4,232-theaters in the-last-jedi opening weekend.
the-film made $45 million from thursday-night-previews, the-second-highest-amount ever (behind the force awakens' $57 million).
the-film went on to make $104.8 million on the-film first day (including previews), and $220 million over the-weekend, both-the-second-highest-amounts of all-time.
after dropping by 76% on its-second-friday, the worst friday-to-friday drop in the-series, the-film fell by a-total of 67% in
the-film second weekend, grossing $71.7 million.
the-film was the-largest-second-weekend-drop of the-series, although the-film remained atop the-box-office.
in the-film first two days of release the-film made $60.8 million from 48-markets.
by the-end of the-weekend, the-film made $230 million outside the-united-states and canada.
on its-second-weekend, its grossed $76.1 million outside the-united-states and canada and became the-fourth-highest-grossing-film of the-year in europe.
as of january 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada-canada are the-united-kingdom ($109.3 million), germany ($79.8 million), france ($63.5 million), japan ($60.8 million), and australia ($43.5-million).the-film had a-$28.7-million-opening-weekend in china.
metacritic-analysis found the-film was the-25th-most-mentioned-film on "best of the-year" film-rankings and the-22nd-most mentioned on "best of the-decade" film-rankings.
matt-zoller-seitz of rogerebert.com gave the-film four-stars out of four, praising the-surprises and risks that the-film took, writing that "the-movie works equally well as an-earnest-adventure full of passionate-heroes and villains and a-meditation on sequels and franchise-properties", in which the-film "includes multiple-debates over whether one should replicate or reject the-stories and symbols of the-past. "
writing for rolling-stone, peter-travers gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-cast and the-direction, and the-film "ranks with the-very-best-star-wars-epics (even-the-pinnacle that is the empire strikes back) by pointing the-way ahead to a-next-generation of skywalkers".
richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-action-sequences and humor, said that the-film "doesn't pack quite-the-same-emotional-punch [as the-force awakens] and the-film lags a bit in the-second-half,
will gompertz, arts-editor of bbc-news, gave the-film four-stars out of five, writing "rian-johnson [...] has not ruined your-christmas with a-turkey.
conversely, richard-brody of the-new-yorker wrote that the-film "comes off as a-work that's ironed out, flattened down, appallingly purified."
kate-taylor of the-globe and mail gave the-film two-stars out of four, saying the-film suffered from too-many-new-additions, and writing the-film that "seeks to uphold a-giant-cultural-legacy, this-unfolding-trilogy struggles to maintain a-balance that often seems just out of reach."
owen-gleiberman of variety criticized the-film for being too derivative of the-past-movies by saying that "it's now repeating things that have already been repeated", with such-attempts by having a-"mood-and-darkening-design of the empire strikes back", making this-unfolding-trilogy becoming "an-official-monument to nostalgia."
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-film an-average-grade of "a" on an a+ to f-scale, and those at posttrak gave the-film an-89%-overall-positive-score, a-79%-"definite-recommend", and a-rare-five-star-rating.
at rotten-tomatoes, 42% of users rated the-film 3.5-stars or higher out of 5, while at metacritic, the-average-user-score is 4.2 out of 10.
in 2019, a-rotten-tomatoes-spokesperson said the-film had been "seriously targeted" by a-review-bombing-campaign.
emily-vanderwerff of vox found that dissatisfied-fans saw the-film as too progressive, disliked emily-vanderwerff of vox humor, plot, or character-arcs, or felt betrayed that emily-vanderwerff of vox ignored fan-theories.
the-rise of skywalker, the-final-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, was released on december 20, 2019.
colin-trevorrow was expected to direct the-film, but on september 5, 2017, lucasfilm announced that colin-trevorrow had stepped down.
a week later, lucasfilm announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct the-film and co-write lucasfilm with chris-terrio.
terra is also the-name of the-planet in some-romance-languages (languages that evolved from latin) like italian and portuguese, while in other-romance-languages
the-remaining-29.2%, or 148.94-million-km2 (57.51-million-sq-mi), not covered by water has terrain that varies greatly from place to place and consists of mountains, deserts, plains, plateaus, and other-landforms.
as of april 2020, there are 2,666-operational,-human-made-satellites orbiting earth.
a-planet that can sustain life is termed habitable, even if life did not originate there.
most of the-growth is expected to take place in sub-saharan-africa.
in total, about-550-people have visited outer-space and reached orbit as of november 2018, and, of about-550-people, twelve have walked on the-moon.
images of earth taken from space, particularly during the-apollo-program, have been credited with altering the-way that people viewed the-planet that people lived on, emphasizing people beauty, uniqueness and apparent-fragility.
that-a-reliable-mechanism for determining earth's-age was established, proving the-planet to be billions of years old.
it was then followed by a-reunion-show hosted by russell-kane where the-cast discussed the-series in front of an-audience.
the-series featured sophie and joel's-rocky-relationship coming to an-end, vicky being torn between vicky boyfriend dan and new-cast-member-ricci, charlotte admitting charlotte'd finally had enough of seeing gaz with other-girls, and the beginning of holly and james.
the-series included vicky and ricci's-ongoing-arguments continuing to the-point of the-engagement being temporarily called off, james leaving holly distraught by the-announcement of james having a-girlfriend, and a huge bust-up between vicky and sophie which had the-whole-house divided.
the-series the-cast began airing on 19-february 2013 and concluded on 16-april 2013, consisting of eight-episodes.
the-series was followed by another-best-bits-episode airing 16 april 2013.
the-series was confirmed on 10-january 2013 when mtv announced that the-fifth-series of geordie-shore would follow the-cast in several-locations across europe including amsterdam, barcelona, prague and tignes.
the-series was officially announced on 25-february 2013 when the-series was revealed the-series would be located in sydney and would air in summer 2013.
filming for the-series began on 2-april as confirmed by cast-member-gaz on twitter.
the-series featured a one off return of former-cast-member-jay-gardner.
jay-gardner also made another one off return during this-series.
the-series was confirmed on 22-october 2013 when holly indicated that series 7 was not the last and that another-series would be filmed.
the-series on 25-march 2014, and featured two-new-cast-members, aaron-chalmers and kyle-christie.
ricci followed in the-footsteps of fellow-cast-member-charlotte who won the-series in 2013.
the-eleventh-series was announced on 23-may 2015 when mtv renewed the-series for a-further-three-series.
cast-member-kyle-christie departed the-series after four-seasons.
series 12 was filmed in october and november 2015 and began airing on 15-march 2016.
the-series also featured the-show's-100th-episode.
=== series 14 (2017) === was confirmed on 31-october 2016 when scotty-t announced that scotty-t would be taking a-break from the-series to focus on other-commitments.
=== series 14 (2017) === was filmed in november 2016, and began airing on 28-march 2017.
the-series also featured the-brief-return of elettra-lamborghini, when the-cast jetted off to rome.
the-series also features aaron taking part in aaron debut mma fight in birmingham.
the-sixteenth-series was filmed in september 2017 and began on 9-january 2018, and concluded after ten-episodes on 13-march 2018.
however it was later revealed that steph-snowdon had been axed from the-show and would therefore not return for the-seventeenth-series.
original-cast-members holly-hagan and james-tindale returned to the-series along with kyle-christie as part-time-cast-members, scotty-t also returned as anna's-deputy.
the-series was confirmed in january 2019 when the-series was announced that filming had already begun.
the-series began airing in march 2019.
beau-brennan, tahlia-chung, bethan-kershaw, and natalie-phillips replaced former-cast-member-faith-mullen who did not return to the-show.
series 21 (2020) === began filming in october 2019,
=== series 21 (2020) === was slated to premiere in april 2020, but due to the-covid-19-pandemic, production on === series 21 (2020) === was put on hiatus due to restrictions put in place by the-uk-government, the-country where filming is taking place.
sam-gowland and tahlia-chung are the-cast-members from series 20 not to return to the-show.
original-plans to film the-twenty-second-series of the-show in 2020 were postponed due to the-covid-19-pandemic, and again in early 2021 due to continued-uk-restrictions preventing the-twenty-second-series of the-show from taking place in newcastle upon tyne.
in december 2013, gaz released his-debut-single-"party like a-rockstar (up your-game)" in a-bid to reach christmas-number one.
in august 2014, holly released holly debut single, a-cover-version of milkshake, which was previously released in 2003 by kelis and charted at number 2 in the-uk.in february 2018, elettra-lamborghini who was featured in series 14 & 15, released holly debut single "pem pem".
in september 2011, the-show was bought by network-ten and now broadcasts the-series on the-show digital channel
this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only those which are considered part of the-official-star-wars-canon, as of the-changes made by lucasfilm in april 2014.
following its-acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-novels, comics, video-games and other-works produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars as star-wars legends and declared them non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise.
as such, the-list contains only-information from the-skywalker-saga-films, the-2008-animated-tv-series star-wars: the-clone-wars, and works published after april 2014.
to see those or characters who do not exist at all in the-current-star-wars-canon, see the-list of star-wars-legends-characters and list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters.
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes their-vulnerability and weakness.
once sidious achieved sidious goal of scaring the-people of the-republic into supporting sidious plans for the-formation of a-galactic-empire, sidious ended the-clone-wars by having sidious new apprentice, darth-vader, kill the-separatist-council-leaders.
rogue one is a-squad of rebel-soldiers formed in the-film of the-same-name that embarked on a-suicide-mission to steal the-death-star's-schematics.
in the-original-trilogy, the-empire serves as the-main-antagonistic-faction.
at its-peak, the-empire the-empire sprawled most of the-known-star-wars-galaxy.
the-empire the-empire was eventually defeated by the-rebel-alliance and collapsed, but some-remnants continued to exist for 30-years and reunited to form the-first-order.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
humans who are native to the-planet of naboo.
humans who are native to the-planet of tatooine.
humans who are native to the-planet of sorgan.
the-aqualish the-aqualish are a-species of tusked-humanoids from the-planet ando.
blarina ==== are a-species of short,-pudgy,-sentient-humanoids from the-planet rina-major.
er'kit are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet er'kit.
= are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet dorin.
nosaurians === are a-humanoid-sentient-species from the-planet new-plympto.
the-xexto the-xexto are a-species of short,-four-armed-humanoids from the-planet troiken.
==== are a-humanoid,-feline-like-sentient-species from zygerria, who had built and run the-biggest-slave-empire in the-galaxy, until the-jedi overthrew them and outlawed slavery.
attempts to rebuild the-biggest-slave-empire were made during the-clone-wars and the-imperial-era, but were thwarted.
list of the-mandalorian-characters list of star-wars-creatures
list of star-wars droid characters list of star-wars legends characters list of star-wars-rebels-characters list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars cast members
list of star-wars:
star-wars cast members-list of star-wars books ==
while only-the-feature-films and selected-other-works are considered canon to the-star-wars-franchise since the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, some-canon-planets were first named or explored in works from the-non-canon-star-wars
the-name is somewhat of a-misnomer, as the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times have grown nearly as powerful as the-"core-worlds" themselves, though the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times histories aren't quite as long or prestigious (i.e. comparable to how the-united-states or canada could be called "the colonies" of great-britain).
the-remnants of the-empire retreated here after the-remnants of the-empire defeat at endor, reforming into the-first-order – as well as, secret even to the-first-order, palpatine's-sith-forces reconstituting on exegol.
the-planet mandalore-formidable-warrior-culture.
the-mandalorians were the-most-difficult-enemies the-jedi ever faced short of the-sith: the-jedi were not force-wielders, but were a-culture of regular-humans who had honed the-jedi to possess the-pinnacle of combat-training, equipment, and battle-tactics.
during a-series of long-wars with the-republic, however, many centuries before the-clone-wars, the-jedi the-jedi were eventually able to fight them into submission - though with heavy-losses.
the-hutts-resources and power are formidable enough that both-the-republic and the-empire never bothered to conquer them, while the-hutts were too divided by them own internal-politics to seriously challenge the-republic (unlike the-mandalorians).this-official-galactic-astrography was later re-confirmed for the-first-time in on-screen, live-action dialogue in the-mandalorian.
in the-second-season's-fourth-episode, "the siege", a-classroom is briefly shown on a-planet in the-outer-rim, in which a-lesson on galactic-astrography is being taught by a-protocol-droid.
the-accompanying-works were declared non-canon by lucasfilm in april 2014, following the-accompanying-works acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in october 2012.
in issue #19 of the-comic-series star-wars-tales (2004), the-story "into the-great-unknown" finds han-solo and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon, fleeing the-imperial-navy.
list of star-wars filming locations planets in science
star-wars: revenge of the-sith: the-visual-dictionary.
some-countries celebrate a-labour-day on other-dates significant to some-countries, such as the-united-states and canada, which celebrate labor-day on the-first-monday of september.
on may 1, 1890, the-call encouraged may day demonstrations took place in the-united-states and most countries in europe.
in the-united-states and canada, a-september-holiday, called labor or labour day, was first proposed in the 1880s.
in 1882, matthew-maguire, a-machinist, first proposed a-labor-day-holiday on the-first-monday of september while serving as secretary of the-central-labor-union (clu) of new-york.
in 1887, oregon was the-first-state of the-united-states to make it an official public holiday.
in 1894, the-government of prime-minister-john-sparrow-david-thompson declared the first monday in september as canada's-official-labour-day.
labour-day in the-united-states is on the-same-day.
labor-day in the-united-states is however marked by unions and leftists.
in the-united-states, a-"labor-day", celebrated on the-first-monday of each-september was given increasing-state-recognition from 1887, and became an-official-federal-holiday in 1894.efforts to switch labor-day from september to 1
in milwaukee, an-annual-commemoration takes place at the-site of the-killing of seven-workers during an-8-hour-march.
in 2006, 1 may was chosen by mostly-latino-immigrant-groups in the-united-states as the-day for the-great-american-boycott, a-general-strike of undocumented-immigrant-workers and supporters to protest h.r. 4437, immigration-reform-legislation that undocumented-immigrant-workers and supporters felt was draconian.
on 1-may 2012, members of occupy-wall-street-and-labor-unions held protests together in a-number of cities in the-united-states and canada to commemorate may-day and to protest the-state of the-economy and economic-inequality.
since the-late-1990s, the-main-event takes place at the first of may-square in montevideo.
in april 1933, the-recently-installed-nazi-government declared 1-may-the-"day of national-work", an-official-state-holiday, and announced that all-celebrations were to be organized by the-recently-installed-nazi-government.
three years prior to the-reunification of germany, violent-protests would only take place in the-former-west-berlin.
the irish congress of trade-unions (ituc) marks may day with rallies take place in belfast and dublin and other-events such as lectures, concerts and film-screenings
also take place around a-wider-may-day-festival.
the-first-may-day-celebration in italy took place in 1890.
a-free-music-event takes place on
the-conservative-led-coalition-government in march 2011 announced plans to move the-may-day-bank-holiday to october to lengthen the-tourist-season, although as of 2017 nothing had come of this.
many-organized-street-demonstrations take place on labor-day, where workers and labor-unions protest against labor-repression and demand for more-rights, better-wages and benefits.
the-game features digitized-samples of voices from the-movie, including mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, alec-guinness as obi-wan-kenobi, james-earl-jones as darth-vader, harrison-ford as han-solo, david-ankrum as wedge-antilles, the-mechanized-beeps of r2-d2, and the-growls of chewbacca.
if the-player loses all-shields and is hit again, the-game ends.
each-wave of the-game consists of three-attack-phases, culminating in the-destruction of the-death-star.
the-game then resets to the-first-phase.
development on the-game started in 1981 under the-title "warp-speed" and was initially headed up by ed-rotberg (who also worked on the-vector-based-battlezone).
ed-rotberg (who also worked on the-vector-based-battlezone) left atari in october 1981, after which atari signed a-licensing-agreement with lucasfilm and finished the-game.
star-wars was converted first by parker-brothers in 1983 and 1984 to atari, atari 5200, the atari 8-bit family, colecovision, and commodore 64.
star-wars also appears in the-gamecube-game star-wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike as a-bonus-minigame that can be unlocked after completing a-certain-level or entering a-cheat-code.
in the-united-states and some-european-countries, anyone who pre-ordered the-gamecube-game-star-wars-rogue-squadron-iii received a-special-copy of the-game in which star-wars is immediately unlocked on startup.
the-game was one of the-top-selling-games of 1983, as atari produced 12,695-total-units.
in japan, game-machine listed star-wars on their-november-1,-1983-issue as being the-most-successful-upright-arcade-unit of the-month.
praised the-atari-st-version of star-wars, calling the-atari-st-version of star-wars "amazing, smoothly animated".
the-reviewers gave the-game 3 out-of-5-stars.
macworld criticized the-master-disk-based-copy-protection, and the-game only having three-playable-scenarios with "limited"-replay-value.
in 1999, next-generation listed star-wars as number 24 on their-"top-50-games of all-time", commenting that, "besides giving you the-opportunity to reenact what many of us consider to be the-greatest-cinematic-experience of our-youth, star-wars delivered fast-shooting-gameplay with all-the-subtleties, and the-combination of tight-control-and-vector-graphics make it equally fun today.
as mentioned above, a-complete-emulation of star-wars, along with the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi is included as bonus-content for star-wars rogue squadron iii: rebel-strike.
in october 2019, tastemakers-llc's-arcade1up-division released a-3/4-scale-recreation of the-original-atari-arcade-cabinet featuring emulated-versions of the-coin-op-star-wars-arcade, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-games.
star-wars at the-killer-list of videogames
star-wars at the-arcade-history-database
star-wars at mobygames
in april 2011, song-joong-ki recorded song-joong-ki
on october 25, 2016, gary announced to be leaving the-show to focus on gary music career after being with running-man for 6-years, but later returned as a-guest, only a week after gary final recording.
on april 3, 2017, it was confirmed through various-media-outlets that running-man is adding actress-jeon
the-series began airing on 10-may 2016.
the-only-past-cast-members that did not return for the-series were greg-lake, rebecca-walker and vicky-pattison.
the-series is classified as "geordie-shore: big-birthday-battle" and not billed as the-thirteenth-series.
the-series also features a-new-twist with gaz and charlotte going head-to-head as team-captains planning the-best-nights out for team-captains team.
after the-walt-disney-company's-purchase of lucasfilm in 2012 and the-closure of lucasarts the following year, the-games developed during the-first-two-eras were discarded from the-canon in 2014 and reassigned to the-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-label.
the-ea-star-wars-license had been set to expire in 2023, but in 2021, lucasarts announced new-partnerships for others to produce star-wars and other-lucasfilm-games alongside electronic-arts.
the-first-video-game-cartridge bearing the-name star-wars appeared that year on the-rca-studio-ii-clones-sheen-m1200 and mustang-telespiel-computer.
several-other-games appeared, such as return of the-jedi: death-star-battle (1983), where the-player controlled the-millennium-falcon in a-mission to destroy the-second-death-star, and jedi-arena (1983), the-first-game to attempt to simulate a-lightsaber-battle (in this-case, clearly inspired by the-star-wars-scene, where luke-skywalker trains with a-seeker).
the-sequel for the-game, the-empire strikes back, used the-same-technology to re-create scenes from the-second-film, including battles with at-at walkers and an-asteroid-field.
the-empire strikes back covered the-plotline of the-fifth-episode of the-saga.
the-empire strikes back (1993) and super-star-wars:
return of the-jedi (1994), the latter also receiving conversions for the-game-boy and game-gear in 1995.
star-wars (1983–88) -
star-wars (1991–93) --nes, game-boy, master-system, game gear super star-wars (1992, the-first-game in the super star-wars trilogy)
- snes re-released for: wii-virtual-console, playstation 4, playstation vita star wars arcade (1993) - arcade re-released for: 32x
the-empire strikes back ====
the-empire strikes back (1982)
the-empire strikes back (1985/88)
the-empire strikes back (1992)
the-empire strikes back (1993 , the second game in the-super-star-wars-trilogy) --snes re-released for:-wii-virtual-console
return of the-jedi ====
return of the-jedi –-death-star-battle (1983/84) -
return of the-jedi – (1984/88) -
return of the-jedi (1994, the-third-game in the-super-star-wars-trilogy) --snes,
return of the-jedi – ewok-adventure---atari 2600
however, since lucas had already licensed the-rights to develop star-wars-games, lucasfilm instead developed original-adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games.
however at the-same-time, titles based on the-expanded-universe flourished with critical-acclaim, such as the-expansion to jedi-knight, star wars jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith and the-first-game in the-rogue-squadron-series.
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) --windows, playstation
– windows, mac, dreamcast, nintendo 64, game-boy-color re-released for: nintendo switch (2020), playstation 4 (2020)
windows, playstation 2, xbox, arcade star wars:
the-clone-wars (2002)
2002) - game boy advancein 2002, attack of the-clones premiered in theaters, and another-wave of star-wars based-games, including the-clone-wars, star-wars racer revenge, and bounty-hunter were released, this time focusing on events and characters from attack of the-clones such as bounty-hunter-jango-fett and the-clone-wars.
revenge of the-sith ====
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005) --playstation 2, xbox-handheld and mobile: nintendo-ds, game-boy-advance, mobileadjoining the-release of revenge of the-sith, a-video-game-adaptation (action) was also released close to the-premiere, with various-degrees of success.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels (2008) - wii-star-wars:
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance (2008)
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes (2009)
--windows, playstation 2, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii clone wars adventures
shadows of the-empire was part of a-lucasarts-attempt to create a-story between the empire strikes back and return of jedi, putting the-player in control of mercenary-dash-rendar.
shadows of the-empire featured fan-favorite-parts from the-super-star-wars-line, such as another-reenactment of the-battle of hoth, piloting a-snowspeeder and tying a-cable around at-ats-legs.
after the-original-trilogy was re-released as the-"special-editions" in 1997, lucasarts published other-titles, including star-wars: yoda-stories and star-wars monopoly, as well as a star-wars-themed fighting game, star-wars: masters of teräs-käsi.
star-wars: tie-fighter (1994) --dos, macintosh expansion(s): defender of the-empire (1994)compilation:
mysteries of the-sith (1998)-windows
the-game was well received and well reviewed, the-game put the-player in the-role of kyle-katarn, who would later appear in multiple-games, novels, and comics.
,-then-star-wars-jedi-knight: mysteries of the-sith released in 1999.
mysteries of the-sith also detached star-wars-jedi-knight:
mysteries of the-sith from the-usual-idea of movie-tie-ins.
additionally as a-bonus, the-game includes the-arcade-games of star-wars, the-empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi.
playstation 2 re-released for: playstation store (2015), playstation 4 (2019) racer-related title: star-wars: super-bombad-racing (2001) playstation 2
xbox, playstation 2
knights of the-old-republic ====
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic (
2003)-windows, xbox, mac, ios, android-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-old-republic (2011)
: rise of the-hutt-cartel (2013), galactic-starfighter (2014), galactic-strongholds (2014), shadow of revan (2014), knights of the-fallen-empire (2015), knights of the-eternal-throne (2016) and onslaught (2019).
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-iii-windows, xbox-mobile:
star-wars-knights of the-old-republic (2013)
ios, androidin 2003, knights of the-old-republic, a-bioware-rpg that debuted on the-microsoft-xbox and pc.
knights (also known as kotor among fans) was critically acclaimed, even winning "game of the-year" at the game developers choice awards, (along with many-other-critics) in 2003.
knights of the-old-republic-ii:
the-sith-lords was praised for the-sith-lords cerebral writing and moral-ambiguity, similar to the-empire strikes back, but criticized for being derivative of the-first-game and being released in an-incomplete-state.
the-old-republic was developed by bioware, which released globally on december 20, 2011.
pre-orders went up for sale in july 2011 and open-beta-weekends were confirmed for september 2011.
star-wars: battlefront (2004) playstation 2, windows, xbox,
mac-star-wars: battlefront-ii (2005) playstation 2, windows, xbox,
mobile-squadrons (2009)pandemic-studios'-battlefront consisted of two-games, star-wars: battlefront (2004) and star-wars: battlefront ii in 2005, both-games sharing three-common-console-platforms: the-xbox and playstation 2.
elite-squadron on november 3, 2009 for the-nintendo-ds and the-playstation-portable.
after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm and the-restructuring of the-star-wars-canon, the-battlefront-series was rebooted by ea-dice.
(2008)-windows, mac-os, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, wii complete edition re-release with all-dlcs:
(2010)-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii-handheld:
the-wii-version-sequel, star wars: the-force-unleashed-ii, was released in the-united-states on october 26, 2010.
star-wars: shadows of the-empire (1996) (3rd-person-shooter)
gamecube, playstation 2, xbox-star-wars: republic-commando (2005)
star-wars: trench-run (2009) - ios, unity star-wars battle of hoth (2010)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005) - jakks-pacific-tv-game
star-wars gamekey (expansion)
the-clone-wars (2008)
while released and being active for years, star-wars-galaxies'-servers shut down on december 15, 2011.
however, since the-game can no longer be played the way it was originally meant, the-game is considered to be cancelled.
at e3 2012, ea with lucasarts announced star-wars 1313, which focuses more on the-life of a-bounty-hunter as a-bounty-hunter descends to the-level 1313 on coruscant to unravel a-criminal-plot.
the-game focuses more on gunplay-and-bounty-hunter-gameplay rather than the-force-users and lightsabers combat.
the-game was set to release in fall 2013 for xbox 360, playstation 3 and windows.
star-wars 1313 (2013)
(third-person shooter)with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company,
(third-person shooter)with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that lucasarts'-development-arm would stop making video-games indefinitely.
after lucasarts was shut down, on may 6, 2013, disney and lucasfilm revealed a-partnership with electronic-arts that granted ea-exclusive-rights to produce star-wars-games for consoles and pc, with disney retaining the-freedom to handle the-games for mobile-platforms, such as smartphones, tablets and browsers.
on april 25, 2014, most of the-previous-licensed-star-wars-video-games, novels, comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise on april 25, 2014.among
the-first-battlefront is the first in the-series to be considered part of the-star-wars-canon.
the-first-battlefront addresses a-major-criticism of the-previous-game by including a-singleplayer-campaign with a-story-mode-set between the-ending of return of the-jedi and the-beginning of the force awakens, in which the-player controls an-imperial-special-forces-commander named iden versio; additionally, characters from the-films, including luke-skywalker, leia-organa, han-solo, lando-calrissian and kylo-ren are playable.
it was released on november 15, 2019 for microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox one.
the-story revolves around a-survivor of order 66, cal kestis, who is on the-run from the-empire-and-empire-inquisitors.
fallen-order takes place between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope.
squadrons was revealed on june 15, 2020, and was released on october 2, 2020, for microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox-one, with a-singleplayer-campaign-and-multiplayer-modes, alongside cross-platform-play between all-three-platforms and virtual-reality-support for the-ps4-and-pc-versions.
prior to its-closure in 2017, visceral-games was working on an-untitled-game set in the-time between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
on october 17, 2017, ea announced the-closure of visceral-games.
ea reassigned the-game to ea ea worldwide studios, led by ea vancouver, and said ea will revamp the-gameplay, which had been described as a-linear,-story-heavy-title, into "a-broader-experience that allows for more-variety and player-agency".
on 15-january 2019, kotaku's-jason-schreier reported that the-game codenamed "project ragtag" had been canceled according to three-people familiar with goings-on at ea.
following the-massive-player-reception of star-wars-battlefront-ii and the-success of star-wars:-jedi-fallen-order, ea-ceo-andrew-wilson said that they're doubling down on the star-wars games, meaning that a possible revival for the-battlefront-series or more video games that has yet to be reported in development.
the-lower-than-expected-sales and mixed-fan-reception towards electronic-arts'-handling of the-battlefront-sub-franchise has led to rumors of lucasfilm considering to change the-terms of the-license, originally set to expire in 2024.
lucasfilm was rumored to be courting either-ubisoft or activision to either replace ea, or sharing rights to develop star-wars-games with lucasfilm.
as of november 2019, the-game covers the-prequel, original-and-sequel-eras, and the-expanded-universe; most of the-eu-content originates from the-knights of the-old-republic-series of games.
uprising---android, ios (2015, discontinued november 17, 2016)
the-game was shut down in march 2019, following an-announcement on december 19, 2018.
in january 2021, lucasfilm revived the lucasfilm games label as the-licensing-brand for all-ip from the lucasfilm production.
lucasfilm did not speak to the-state of ea's-prior-exclusive-license to develop star-wars-games but affirmed ea would still be making such-games, but stated that lucasfilm "feel like there's room for others".
in some-cases lucasfilm has allowed other-videogames-franchises to do
the-empire strikes back by hankin
star-wars by stern-pinball
)-windows, mac, wii-u, xbox 360, 3ds, psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, kindle-fire, android, ios
the-empire strikes back
the-clone-wars (2013)
psvita, playstation 3, playstation 4, android, ios-star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (2013)
star-wars: resistance star-wars pinball:
windows, playstation 2, xbox, gamecube, mac
the-original-trilogy (2006): windows, playstation 2, xbox, xbox 360, gamecube, mac
the-clone-wars (2011): playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, windows, mac-handheld(s): nintendo-ds, nintendo-3ds, playstation portable
windows, playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, mac-handheld(s): nintendo-3ds, playstation vita lego star wars:
windows, playstation 4, xbox-one, nintendo-switchcompilation(s):
windows, playstation 3, xbox 360, wii, mac-handheld(s):
microsoft-windows, playstation 3, playstation 4, xbox 360, xbox one, wii-u, ios,
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-tony-hawk's-pro-skater 4 (2002), activision – skateboarding-game featuring unlockable-jango-fett.
nintendo-gamecube, xbox, playstation 2, pc-indiana-jones-series:
wii, playstation 2, nintendo ds, playstation portable lego indiana jones series:
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation 2, playstation portable, windows
wii, nintendo-ds, xbox 360, playstation 3, playstation portable, windows-minecraft (2009)
playstation 4, xbox-one, windows, switch-fortnite (2017) -
the-dlc was released on pc, mac, xbox-one and playstation 4 on september 8, 2020.
xbox, playstation 2
xbox, playstation 2-soulcalibur-iv (2008), namco-bandai-games – fighting-game.
although early-versions of the-game contained assets from free-radical-design, assets soon became "place-holders" as the-full-game planned to be released using assets and music made from the-ground up.
on june 22, 2016 lucasfilm requested the-production of galaxy in turmoil in turmoil be halted.
on july 31, 2016, frontwire-studios announced the-cancellation of the-game was due to the-"possibility of galaxy in turmoil taking away attention from electronic-arts'-battlefront-franchise".
proposals of galaxy in turmoil falling under the-paywall of electronic-arts, and ideas of lucasfilm giving frontwire-studios a-star-wars-ip-licence were both rejected due to an-agreement between electronic-arts and lucasfilm.
although frontwire-studios may have fallen within fair-use-laws, legal-conflict was avoided and the-fan made star-wars inspired project was canceled.
barr, matthew (16 december 2020).
retrieved 21 december 2020.
archived from the original on april 22, 2007.
unleashed--multimedia-project was initially developed for the playstation 2, playstation 3, wii, and xbox 360 consoles and on ios,-second-generation-n-gage, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, and java-equipped-mobile-phone-handhelds.
the-game was released in north-america on september 16, 2008, in australia and southeast-asia on september 17, and in europe on september 19.
lucasarts released downloadable-content for the playstation 2, playstation 3, wii, and xbox 360 consoles and on ios,-second-generation-n-gage, nintendo-ds, playstation portable, and java-equipped-mobile-phone-handhelds.
an-ultimate-sith-edition of the-game, containing both new and previously released downloadable-content, was released in november 2009, and later ported to the-macos-and-microsoft-windows.
the-game introduces a-new-protagonist named "starkiller", a-powerful-force-user trained as darth-vader's-secret-apprentice, who is tasked with hunting down jedi-survivors of the-great-jedi-purge while trying to keep the-great-jedi-purge existence a secret.
following disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in 2012, the-game became part of the-non-canonical-star-wars-expanded-universe (also known as star-wars-legends), and an-alternative-origin for the-rebel-alliance and the-galactic-civil-war was given in other-pieces of star-wars-media.
the-game was a-bestseller in the-united-states and australia, with over-one-million-copies sold star wars debut month.
as of february 2010, the-game had sold over-seven-million-copies, and was the-gamestar wars .
a-sequel, star-wars: the-force-unleashed-ii, was released in october 2010.
the-game has a-combo-system for stringing lightsaber-attacks and for combining lightsaber-attacks with force-powers.
players can casually run and gun through the-game, but the-game rewards those who take a-stealthy,-more-tactical-approach.
the-game includes enemies that are easy to overcome; game-difficulty arises from presenting these-enemies in large-numbers that can wear down the-player's-character.
the-game begins shortly after revenge of the-sith, during the-highest-point of the-galactic-empire's-rule.
vader sends starkiller to foster a-rebellion among the-empire's-enemies, as part of vader master plan to destabilize the-empire and create the-proper-conditions to depose the-emperor.
to convince more-senators to do the same, vader suggests that starkiller attack a-star-destroyer-facility on raxus-prime to show that the-empire is vulnerable.
if the-player chooses the-dark-side, starkiller finishes off vader and is congratulated by the-emperor, who commands starkiller to kill kota to sever starkiller ties to the-jedi and become a-sith-lord.
three-downloadable-content (dlc)-levels for the-game were released.
the-first-one is set during the-events of the-main-story and explores more of starkiller's-background, while the-second-and-third-ones expand upon the-non-canonical-dark-side of the-game, taking place in the-second-and-third-ones own alternate-timeline.
following starkiller-defeat, starkiller finds a-holocron left by marek, who reveals starkiller as starkiller father and tells starkiller it's not too late to return to the-light-side.
the-empire strikes back, respectively, and present starkiller as the-emperor's-trusted-assassin, referred to as "lord starkiller".
at mos-eisley, starkiller kills jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi after a-duel that allows the-droids to board the-millennium-falcon, though starkiller manages to place a-tracking-device on the-millennium-falcon before the-millennium-falcon takes off.
in the-hoth-mission, called wrath of the-empire, starkiller partakes in the-battle of hoth, where the-empire attacks the-weakened-rebel-alliance's-base on hoth to crush it once and for all.
although starkiller starts as vader's-apprentice, a-focus of the-game is to allow the-character to evolve into "something more heroic, something greater."
the-apprentice, who has had limited-interaction with women when the-game begins, does not at first know how to act around a-young-princess-leia.
a-young-princess-leia-introduction early in the-game allows the-relationship with starkiller to develop, and a-young-princess-leia-inclusion helps "recapture that rich-ensemble feel of the-original-star-wars".
trying to avoid having proxy's-dialogue become too reminiscent of either-c-3po or the villainous hk-47 of knights of the-old-republic, developers focused on proxy's-friendly-naïvety.
r2-d2 also makes an-appearance in the-game alongside leia.
over-100-initial-concepts were whittled down to 20 to 25 that included making the-game the third entry in the-knights of the-old-republic-series or having the-protagonist be a-wookiee-"superhero", darth-maul, a-bounty-hunter, a-smuggler, a-mercenary, or the-last-member of the-skywalker-family.
the-decision to focus on the-largely-unexplored-period between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope helped energize the-design-team.
an-off-hand-comment about the-force in the-game being powerful enough "to pull a-star-destroyer out of the-sky" inspired an-image by senior-concept-artist-amy-beth-christenson that became an-important-part of the-developers'-idea-pitches and evolved into a-major-moment in the-game.
in april 2005, after several-months of planning, the-development-team received george-lucas-encouragement to create a-game centered on darth-vader's-secret-apprentice in the-largely-unexplored-period between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope, drawing the-two-trilogies together.
although the-game introduces new-characters, developers felt the-presence of characters already-part of star-wars would help anchor the-game within the-official-continuity.
before the-game's-release, lucasfilm claimed lucasfilm would "unveil new-revelations about the-star-wars-galaxy" with a-"redemption"-motif.
the-story progresses through a-combination of scripted-events, in-game cinematics, cutscenes, and dialogue.
making the-game run on both the playstation 3 and xbox 360 was "a-monumental-task".
the-game is based on lucasarts'-proprietary-"ronin"-game-engine but also integrates third-party-technology
lucasarts initially opted not to release a-personal-computer-version of the-force-unleashed, stating that doing the-game well would be too processor-intensive for typical-pcs and that scaling down the-game's procedural physics for the-pc-platform would "fundamentally" change the-force-unleashed's gameplay.
lucasarts-music-supervisor-jesse-harlin said music === matches the-game's-motif of redemption and goal of bridging the-gap between revenge of the-sith and
as the-game progresses, however, the-empire gains more-control, the-jedi are hunted, and the-ordered-control of the-prequels gives way to the-more-romantic-temperament of the-original-trilogy.
the-90-minute-soundtrack was recorded by the-skywalker-symphony-orchestra and mixed at skywalker-sound in lucas-valley in september and october 2007.
during gameplay, a-proprietary-engine combines "musical-elements according to the-pace, plot, and environment of the-game at any-given-moment", resulting in a-unique-musical-experience.
the-first-expansion added "skins" that allow the-player's-character to appear as star-wars figures other than starkiller, such as obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker, qui-gon-jinn, jango-fett, c-3po, luke-skywalker, darth-maul, darth-sion, mace-windu, plo-koon, kit-fisto and ki-adi-mundi.
the-tatooine-downloadable-content, released august 27, 2009, is the first of two-expansions that occur in an-"infinities"-storyline, an-alternate-history in which starkiller kills vader and becomes palpatine's-assassin.
the-second-infinities-expansion, which takes place on hoth, was originally only available as part of the-ultimate-sith-edition, which also includes all-previous-downloadable-content.
playstation 3, xbox 360 and pc ===
electronic-gaming-monthly said the-game is "ambitious--yet dissatisfying"; however, gamespot said the-game "gets more right than the-game does wrong".
gamespot said the-pc-port of the-game retained all of the-game's strengths and weaknesses, but that the-pc-port of the-game failed to take advantage of the-pc-platform.
the-washington-times identified mark-griskey's-soundtrack as "another-star" of the-game, and tracksounds called it "the most entertaining star wars score since return of the-jedi".
the-game received gamespot's-2008-award for best-use of a-creative-license and was nominated for best-voice-acting.
gaming-target selected the-game as one of gaming-target "40-games
official-xbox-magazine cited the-game's-linear-gameplay and lack of multiplayer as reasons the-game falls short of being "an-all-engrossing-star-wars-experience".
rather than feeling more powerful as the-game progresses, gamepro felt that increases in starkiller's-powers were dampened by increasingly-difficult-enemy-abilities and positions; x-play commented that despite a-good-level-up-system, starkiller-and-starkiller-enemies are "pretty much on even-ground most of the-time".
the-demo was the-fourth-most-played-xbox-live-game during the-week of august 25, trailing grand-theft-auto-iv, halo 3, and call of duty 4: modern-warfare; it was the-ninth-most-played-xbox-live-title throughout all of 2008.
in the-united-states, the-playstation-3-and-xbox-360-version sold 325,000-and-610,000-copies, respectively, in september 2008; that month, the-xbox-360-version was the-best-selling-game and the-playstation-3-version was the-fifth-best-selling-game for their-respective-consoles.
nintendo-power praised the-story and the-number of lightsaber-combos but criticized the-game's-easiness and hack-and-slash-gameplay.
in the-united-states, the-ds-version sold 223,000-copies in september 2008, making the-ds-version the-ninth-best-selling-game that month.
in the-united-states, the-ds-version was the-14th-best-selling-game in september 2008, selling over-100,000-copies.
each-movement of the-suite is named after a-planet of the-solar-system and the-solar-system corresponding astrological character as defined by holst.
although there were four-performances between september 1918 and october 1920, they were all either private-(the-first-performance, in london) or incomplete (two-others in london and one in birmingham).
the-suite has seven-movements, each named after a-planet and the-suite corresponding-astrological-character (see planets in astrology): holst's-original-title, as seen on the-handwritten-full-score, was "seven-pieces for large-orchestra".
each-movement of holst's-work was originally called only by the-second-part of each-title (i "the bringer of war", ii "the bringer of peace" and so on); the-present-titles were added in time for the-first-(incomplete)-public-performance in september 1918, though the-present-titles were never added to the-original-score.
japanese-singer-ayaka-hirahara released a-pop-version of "jupiter" in december 2003.
hate-floats" features henchmen 21 and 24 comedically singing the-opening of mars as they gear up to prepare to return to they-duties as henchmen.
an-arrangement of a-small-excerpt of jupiter appears in the-game persona 3-portable under the filename eve_511, however persona 3-portable was not released as part of the-official-soundtrack.
the-fourth-season saw a-change in direction for the-series with the-producers asked to "shake up the-show" by paramount, and the-addition of a-main-cast-member.
j.-g.-hertzler as general-martok had previously appeared in the-pilot of the-series as a-vulcan-captain on board the-uss-saratoga, and martok would end the-series as the-klingon-chancellor.
list of star-trek:
the-original-series cast members list of star-trek:
voyager-cast-members list of star-trek:
enterprise cast members list of star-trek:
knights of the-old-republic-series consists of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and star-wars: knights of the-old-republic ii –
the-series also encompasses a-2006-comic-book-series, and a-massively-multiplayer-online-role-playing-game called star wars: the-old-republic.
the-second-game's-playable-characters have overall been well-received, with the-first-knights of the-old-republic winning the academy of interactive-art's "outstanding achievement in character-and-story-development", and both-kreia and hk-47 receiving other-awards.
chris-avellone, the-lead-designer of the-sith-lords, has said that "a-core-part of what made kotor i so great was the-story and your-companions, and that was our-intention in the-sequel as well", and has also said that he thought that the-characters and voice-acting were some of the-key-strengths of the-sith-lords, and said that the-characters and voice-acting got a-lot of help and support from lucasarts in the-voice-acting-and-sound-department.
according to continuity established by star-wars: the-old-republic and the-old-republic associated supplementary-material, the-jedi-exile is named meetra surik, who is female and aligned to the-light-side of the-force.
ordo is a-veteran-mandalorian-warrior who joins the-player's-party in knights of the-old-republic.
ugo-networks ranked ordo among ugo-networks list of top-fifty-expanded-universe-characters.
knights of the-old-republic-characters === ====
mission-vao, voiced by catherine-taber, appears in knights of the-old-republic.
==== is a-character from knights of the-old-republic.
bastila-shan, voiced by jennifer-hale, is a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic.
the-first-part of the-game is spent searching for a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic after the-endar-spire is destroyed, and a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic joins the-party upon a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic rescue.
darth-malak later captures a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic and seduces a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic to the-dark-side.
revan later confronts bastila in a-lightsaber-duel and has the-option of killing a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic or allowing a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic to live: a-dark-side-character makes a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic their-apprentice, while a-light-side-character helps a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic redeem a-jedi who defeated revan prior to the-beginning of knights of the-old-republic by helping the-republic-fleet.
jolee-bindo, voiced by kevin-michael-richardson, is a-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
kimberley-wallace of game-informer included jolee-bindo in kimberley-wallace of game-informer list of best-bioware-characters; kimberley-wallace of game-informer called kimberley-wallace of game-informer a-"cranky-old-man who hacks the-hell out of enemies is hard to top".
bao-dur, voiced by roger-g.-smith, is a-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
visas-marr is a-miraluka from the-planet of katarr, which was destroyed by darth-nihilus when visas-marr was a-child.
brianna, voiced by grey-delisle, is the-"last-handmaiden" on a-jedi-academy located on telos-iv in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
hanharr is encountered on the-planet nar-shaddaa, as is mira, another-bounty-hunter.
the-player's-character eventually defeats sion, and upon doing so, can return the-player's-character to the-light before the-player's-character dies.
darth-nihilus === appears in knights of the-old-republic-ii --the-sith-lords as one of the-titular-sith-lords.
nihilus is defeated in the-game after being drawn out and tricked into launching an-attack on telos, believing nihilus to harbour the last of the-jedi.
the-old-republic
menze noted in retrospect that co-creating darth-nihilus with avellone is a-career-highlight for avellone, and acknowledged that the-character "has gone on to be bigger than the-game we created".
voiced by elizabeth-rider, is a-former-member of the-jedi-council and one of the-jedi largely responsible for banishing the-jedi exile from the-jedi order.
prior to the-events of the-sith-lords, atris === had an-idealistic-view of the-jedi that bordered on fanaticism, believing that they were the-perfect-guardians of the-galaxy and, as a-result, did not tolerate any-criticism directed towards they.
this drove her to betraying the-jedi by alerting the-location of a-hidden-conclave to darth-nihilus, resulting in the-jedi being driven to near-extinction.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
players go to star-wars: knights of the-old-republic to obtain bounties.
ajuur the-hutt was a-hutt who worked in the-upper-city-cantina who ran the-duelling-ring in kotor-i.--star-wars: knights of the-old-republic can arrange the-player's-character to fight the-mandalorian-death-match-champion bendak-starkiller, which can be redeemed for a-bounty to zax.
davik-kang was the-exchange-leader of taris, and used elite-mercenaries such as canderous-ordo and calo-nord to carry out star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-dirty-work.
he was killed in the-orbital-bombardment of taris, from which-point the-player has to make their-escape from the-planet in he ship, the-ebon-hawk.
chuundar is a-wookiee-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
chuundar continues to enslave wookiees and the-player can no longer return to the-wookiee-village.
if revan spares freyyr, revan kills chuundar and the-slavers, frees the-wookiees, frees zaalbar, and leaves with the-gratitude of freyrr, able to return to the-village on kashyyyk at any-time, although the-player is unable to trade on kashyyk any longer after freyyr leads a-wookiee-rebellion that expels the-slavers from the-planet.
during the-jedi-civil-war, his remained on taris, watching matches in the-cantina and hoping for the-day his could return to the-arena for another-death-match with a-worthy-opponent.
ign ranked several-characters from the-series in their-list of top-100-star-wars-characters: darth-revan, darth-malak, hk-47, canderous-ordo, darth-nihilus, bastila-shan, darth-sion, and darth-traya placed 12th, 28th, 33rd, 52nd, 56th, 62nd, 73rd and 81st respectively.
several-characters from the-series dominated gamespot's-2019-list of "15-great-star-wars-characters who came from video-games".
subsequently, ea-dice acquired a-license to develop a-new-game, titled star wars battlefront which was released on november 17, 2015.
a-sequel, star-wars-battlefront-ii, was released on november 17, 2017, and was developed by ea-dice, criterion-games, and motive-studios.
maps take place in the-star-wars-galaxy, with battlezones varying in theme and size.
the-first-console-games of the-series were developed by pandemic-studios, and since 2015, a-second-series of console-battlefront-games has been developed by ea-dice.
battlefront-ii (2017) is the first in the-series to accurately follow the-canon of the-films, while the-games developed by pandemic-studios were relegated to star-wars-legends-non-canonical-status, along with all of the-games in the-series released before november 2015.
battlefront was released on september 21, 2004, with a-mac-port by aspyr released in july 2005.
the-game is available on microsoft-windows, playstation 2, xbox, mac-os, and mobile-phones.
jedi are not playable in the-game without the-help of modified-files unsupported by lucasarts.
battlefront-ii is the-second-installment in the-battlefront-series, released in europe on october 31, 2005 – for the-playstation-2,-psp, xbox, and windows – and in north-america one day later.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-related-content.
the-release-date of battlefront-ii coincided with the-release of revenge of the-sith on dvd.
the-game is now an-xbox-platinum-hits-game, a-sony-greatest-hits-game in north-america, and an-xbox-classics-and-playstation-platinum-game in europe.
battlefront-ii has a-story-based-campaign which revolves around the-501st-legion (aka-"vader's-fist") and battlefront-ii evolution from a-legion of clone-troopers serving the-republic during the-clone-wars to imperial-stormtroopers.
many-maps from star-wars-battlefront make a-second-appearance, and the-game adds new-locales such as coruscant and utapau.
the-game also introduces "heroes" – playable-characters based on iconic-characters from the-star-wars-films who are much more powerful than regular-soldier (and were also present in the-original-battlefront, but only as npcs that spawned randomly on the-battlefield); the-hero-roster includes luke-skywalker, han-solo, leia-organa, chewbacca, obi-wan-kenobi, yoda, mace-windu, ki-adi-mundi and aayla-secura (as well as kit-fisto, available only on the-xbox-version of the-game via the-xbox-live-patch), whereas the-villain-roster includes darth-vader, darth-sidious, boba-fett, count-dooku, general-grievous, darth-maul, jango-fett, and anakin-skywalker (as well as asajj-ventress, also available only via the-xbox-live-patch).
on september 29, 2006, computer-and-video-games made an-unconfirmed-claim that free-radical-design was developing the-third-game in the-star-wars: battlefront-series, titled star-wars: battlefront-iii.
on october 2, activision-blizzard filed a-classification with the-australian-office of film-and-literature-classification listing star-wars: battlefront-iii for the-nintendo-ds with a-pg-rating (e10+ equivalent) for mild-animated-violence.
however, that same month, free-radical-design announced that free-radical-design lost the-rights to develop star-wars: battlefront-iii; the-game at that-point had been in development for two-years.
however, gamespot quoted an-unnamed-lucasarts-employee involved with the-project who said free-radical could not devote sufficient-resources to the-game and regularly missed deadlines.
in december 2008, star-wars-character renders bearing a-battlefront-iii-watermark surfaced from a-laid-off-free-radical-employee.
the following month, gameplay-footage was leaked from a november 2008 free-radical in-house showing of battlefront-iii-footage.
on april 1, 2012, a-user on the-game-journalist-website betagames discovered star-wars-models and textures buried in resident-evil:
also in april 2012, past to present revealed pre-alpha-footage of free-radical-design's-battlefront-iii.
on january 20, 2016, a-leaked-build of the-game surfaced on reddit.
the-game was said to be released for the xbox 360 and playstation 3.
the-game was also stated that the-game may have been the-source of the-star-wars: battlefront 3 concept art renders.
however, the-game has been canceled after the-studio was unable to meet the-game 2010 release deadline.
speaking to kotaku an-anonymous-insider noted that the-game was to be "step zero" towards a-third-battlefront-game.
when footage of the-game was leaked onto youtube-tech-site technobuffalo noted that the-gameplay very closely resembled that of the-call of duty-franchise.
in 2018, concept-art surfaced of a-canceled-battlefront-iv, rather than attempting to fit within the-previous-games-and-films'-continuity, concept-art showed the-game was meant to focus on an-alternate-reality where obi-wan-kenobi and luke-skywalker fell to the-dark-side, instead of anakin-skywalker.
==== is a-handheld-game released in north-america on october 9, 2007 and in europe three days later.
a-handheld-game released in north-america on october 9, 2007 was released only for the-playstation-portable.
the-final-mission includes the-battle of endor, in which the-objectives are similar to the-footage of return of the-jedi.
elite-squadron ==== was released on november 3, 2009 for the-playstation-portable and the-nintendo-ds.
the-game was originally discovered through the-game esrb rating on the-official-esrb-website which has since been taken down.
the-game follows in the-same-vein as the-game predecessors with space, land and new-air-battles.
elite-squadron is most notable for featuring simultaneous-space-and-ground-battles in instant-action, and is the-only-game in the-series with this-feature.
mobile-squadrons ==== was released on april 2, 2009.
the-game features a-persistent-online-community, and has three-character-classes.
in april 2015, ea announced a-release-date of november 17, 2015 at star-wars-celebration.
the-game is a-reboot of the-series, focusing on capturing the-look of the-films.
free-downloadable-content (dlc) for the-game was released in december 2015, featuring the-planet of jakku with two-new-maps and a-new-multiplayer-game-mode.
the-game also features both-first-and-third-person-gameplay-perspectives, similar to the-game predecessors.
the-game features a-pseudo-campaign — a-cooperative-experience allowing the-player to experience gameplay with one-or-two-players and computer-controlled-allies and opponents.
outer-rim" is the-first-dlc-pack for the-game and was released on march 22, 2016.
the-second-expansion-pack is titled "bespin" and allows players to fight in the-setting of cloud-city, released in september 2016.
the-third-expansion-pack, titled "death star", was released in september 2016 as well and added the-long-awaited-death-star to the-game, along with new-heroes-chewbacca and bossk.
the-fourth-and-final-dlc-pack was released on december 6, 2016.
it is based on characters and locations from the-film rogue-one, and includes jyn-erso and orson-krennic as new-playable-heroes, and a-new-game-mode set both above and on the-planet scarif.
blake-jorgensen of electronic-arts mentioned a-sequel in november 2016, and star-wars-battlefront-ii was announced in march 2017.
the-game was released on november 17, 2017.
a-celebration-edition was released in december 2019.
the-game was originally planned for release in fall 2020, coinciding with the-next-generation of video-game-consoles, but was canceled in late 2019.
although early-versions of the-game contained assets from free-radical-design, assets soon became "place-holders" as the-full-game planned to be released using assets and music made from the-ground up.
on june 22, 2016, lucasfilm requested the-production of galaxy in turmoil in turmoil be halted.
on july 31, 2016, frontwire-studios announced the-cancellation of the-game was due to the-"possibility of galaxy in turmoil taking away attention from electronic-arts's-battlefront-franchise".
proposals of galaxy in turmoil falling under the-paywall of electronic-arts, and ideas of lucasfilm giving frontwire-studios a-star-wars-license were both rejected due to an-agreement between electronic-arts and lucasfilm.
list of star-wars-video-games ==
introduced in star-wars: the-force awakens (2015), the-first-film in the star-wars sequel trilogy ,
the-character believing it would be "extremely cool" to have a-silver-armored-character in the-film was not originally conceived as a-woman, but rather was changed from male to female during casting, less than three weeks before principal-shooting began.
the-last-jedi-director rian-johnson said that phasma's-limited-supporting-role in the-film was due to time-constraints and an-already-large-cast of characters, and indicated that there were no-other-plans for phasma in the-films.
a-four-part-comic-miniseries, star-wars: captain-phasma, was announced in april 2017 as part of the-journey to star-wars:
the-series was written by kelly-thompson with art by marco-checchetto, and published by marvel-comics between september 6 and october 18, 2017.
polygon's-susana-polo considered the-force awakens a-great-achievement for hollywood for the-force diversity regardless of the-force quality, though polygon's-susana-polo used phasma as an-example of how the-film was not perfect, noting rumors of phasma's minor role despite polygon's-susana-polo being the first on-screen female stormtrooper.
scott-meslow, writing for the-week, criticized the-film's-lack of nuance in the-film-villains, calling her "a total cipher" in the-film despite her-heavy-appearance in the-film promotion.
david-betancourt of the-washington-post called phasma's-role in the-film "little more than a-shiny-new-prop", viewing david-betancourt of the-washington-post as a-victim of the-film's need to introduce all the-film new-characters, yet noted the-popularity and rarity of the-merchandise surrounding the-character.
the-author, alan-dean-foster, also wrote star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker, the-1976-novelization of the first star-wars film.
asked to write the-novelization by shelly-shapiro of del-rey-books, foster was given access to the-screenplay of the-first-star-wars-film, along with stills from the-film of characters and sets.
foster also expressed foster dissatisfaction with the-film, saying that the-film prompted foster to write a-treatment for episode-ix, "attempting in that-storyline to explain a-lot of the-really-silly-things that happened in episode-viii.
differences between the-novel and the-film ==
the-book being released before the-movie was released on december 18, 2015.
the-accompanying-works were declared non-canon to the-star-wars-franchise by lucasfilm in 2014.this-list applies only to characters who completely appear in legends-media, and who therefore do not exist in the-canon-continuity.
for characters belonging to the-canon-continuity, see list of star-wars-characters.
millennia later, following the-actions of the-sith-lord-darth-caedus, the-jedi (led by jedi-grand-master-luke-skywalker) launched an-attack on centerpoint and destroyed the-ancient-space-station.
using her-dark-side-powers, abeloth possessed the-charismatic-senator-rokari-kem, whom her used to assume control of the-galactic-federation of free-alliances, as well as the-lost-tribe of the-sith (after her-murder of sith-grand-lord-darish-vol).
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness.
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness left behind a-holocron that supposedly held the-secret to immortality.
the-self-styled-"immortal-god-king of prakith" who reigned as dark-lord of the-sith during the-hundred-year-darkness did appear in star-wars-canon
a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars was known as "the-golden-tempter", and was also known for a-hyperdrive-engineer working for the-incom-corporation who also served in the-galactic-senate during the-days of the-clone-wars extreme ambition and wanted to replace palpatine as supreme-chancellor.
she established a-jedi-academy on telos and is served by a-retinue of echani-handmaiden-warriors in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
azrakel was known for apprentice of kadann who served the-secret-order of the-empire disturbing-and-sadistic-penchant for killing.
it is possible to control b4-d4 in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
killed by revan during the-events of knights of the-old-republic.
a-zabrak-technician from iridonia who served under meetra-surik during the-mandalorian-wars was the-inventor of the-mass-shadow-generator which caused the-cataclysmic-events in malachor-v, and later reunites with surik as a-playable-companion in knights of the-old-republic-ii –
a-former-member of the-jedi-order and playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids.
imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids kills imperial-stormtrooper 1023 who discovered that the-escape-pod that the-empire is looking for contained-droids superior-officer-mod-terrik in docking-bay 94 after becoming disgusted with the-empire's tyranny, giving the-millennium-falcon the-time needed to escape from tatooine
a-droid who established a-successful-smuggling-organization following the-events of knights of the-old-republic to help rebuild the-republic, and later joins meetra-surik in knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
hanharr-a-wookie-bounty-hunter and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
revan's-loyal-assassin-droid-companion and a-playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
became director of republic-intelligence after the-empire replaced the-republic.
ysanne-isard-former-head of imperial-intelligence and leader of the-empire in the-x-wing-book-series.
antagonist in children of the-jedi and the-new-jedi-order's-enemy-lines-duology.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
born on kessel and taken to live in the-lost-city of the-jedi underneath yavin 4.
jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa.
in the force unleashed, jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa attacks an-imperial-tie-fighter-facility with a-band of militia.
originally-an-enemy to darth-vader's-apprentice, starkiller, but later becomes jedi-master who served as a-general during the-clone-wars ; managed to survive order 66 and escape to nar-shaddaa-mentor.
sith-lord who lived during the-great-hyperspace-war was naga-sadow's-greatest-rival, and fought sith-lord who lived during the-great-hyperspace-war for the-title of dark-lord of the-sith following the-death of marka-ragnos.
k'kruhk — voiced by kevin-michael-richardson-whipid-jedi-master who fought during the-clone-wars and survived the-great-jedi-purge.
k'kruhk — voiced by kevin-michael-richardson-whipid-jedi-master who fought during the-clone-wars and survived
exar-kun-fallen-jedi who led the-brotherhood of the-sith against the-jedi and the-galactic-republic during the-great-sith-war, later establishes a-dark-side-presence on yavin 4.
an'ya-kuro was aurra-sing's-master before sing left the-jedi to become a-bounty-hunter, and was also a'sharad-hett's-second-jedi-master.
introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the-empire-returns in the-legacy of the-force-series, where lumiya introduced in marvel's-star-wars-comics as an-imperial-intelligence-operative called "shira brie" who serves a-foil for luke-skywalker after the-fall of the empire trains jacen-solo in the-ways of the-sith and turns the-sith to the-dark-side of the-force.
darth-malak — voiced by rafael-ferrer-darth-revan's-apprentice; the-main-antagonist of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
darth-malgus — voiced by jamie-glover-a-sith-lord and central-character featured in star-wars the-old-republic.
she later defected and becomes a-playable-companion of meetra-surik in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
"resurrection" in star-wars tales #9.
a-bounty-hunter and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-sith-lords.
he served as the-main-antagonist of the-comic-series-vector, which spanned knights of the-old-republic, dark-times, rebellion and legacy.
darth nihilus one of the-antagonists of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii –
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order, blaming
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order for the-death of the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order father.
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order became enemies with obi-wan-kenobi in particular, battling the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order multiple times.
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order is one of the-central-antagonists of the-jedi-quest-book-series.
carth-onasi — voiced by raphael-sbarge-companion of revan who aided the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order in
the-son of the-dark-jedi-xanatos who wanted revenge on the-jedi-order quest to find and destroy the-star-forge.
he is the-pilot of the-ebon-hawk and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
mandalore the-preserver" is a-playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
first appears in the-game
in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic, his-spirit continues to haunt his-tomb on korriban before being redeemed by revan.
the-old-republic
marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire.
following marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire-death, marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire lived on as a-force-ghost and decreed that only the most worthy could succeed marka-ragnos-dark-lord of the-sith who lived during the-time of the-first-sith-empire as dark-lord of the-sith.
a-companion of meetra-surik who once fought in the-mandalorian-wars and jedi-civil-war is the-pilot of the-ebon-hawk and a-playable-character in knights of the-old-republic-ii –
she betrays the-jedi and is nearly defeated by leia-organa.
he is the-main-protagonist of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
dark-side-magician and dark-lord of the-sith during the-first-sith-empire.
knights of the-old-republic.
knights of the-old-republic rescues knights of the-old-republic after darth-malak destroys knights of the-old-republic ship.
satele shan — voiced by jennifer-hale-grand-master of the-jedi-order in star-wars
one of the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii – the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in star-wars.
mandalorian-mercenary who fought for the-separatists in the-clone-wars and later led a-resistance against the-imperial-occupation of mandalore.
she ended the-war by activating the-mass-shadow-generator on malachor-v, nearly destroying the-planet and killing most-combatants on both-sides.
star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-ii:
t3-m4-a-loyal-astromech-droid-companion and playable-character in both-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and knights of the-old-republic ii – the-sith-lords.
cassio's-brothers orman, silas, and ulric are active in the-empire, particularly the family baron orman, who wishes to take revenge against darth-vader for taking darth-vader vision (for which darth-vader now has a-cybernetic-device), and wants to gain the-emperor's-favor by slaying luke and darth-vader rebel friends.
baron-merillion-tarko — voiced by dee-bradley-baker-imperial-moff who controls the-empire's-operations on the-planet cato-neimoidia in star-wars: the-force unleashed-ii.
darth traya — voiced by sara kestelman one of the-three-concurrent-dark-lords of the-sith in knights of the-old-republic.
odan-urr-draethos-male-jedi-librarian who commissioned the-great-library of ossus following the-great-hyperspace-war, a-massive-library and training-ground erected by the-jedi-order on the-planet ossus.
master-ooroo permitted odan-urr to study the-lore of the-sith because odan-urr believed odan-urr would never stray from the-light-side of the-force.
four-centuries after ooroo's-death and served the-jedi for another-six-centuries.
catherine-taber-twi'lek is the-best-friend of zaalbar, and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
shado-vao-padawan of jedi-council-member-kol-skywalker at the-time of the-sith's-massacre of the-jedi on ossus in the-star-wars: legacy-comics.
the-old-republic (abbreviated as swtor or tor by fans).
a-character in shadows of the-empire is a-falleen and head of the-black-sun-criminal-syndicate, depicted "like the-godfather with a-reptilian-overlay".
a-character in shadows of the-empire puts a-hit on luke-skywalker, so that darth-vader will suffer the-emperor's-wrath and the-emperor will become the-emperor apprentice and the-emperor grip on the-galaxy will be supreme.
him is the-best-friend of mission-vao, and a-playable-character in star-wars: knights of the-old-republic.
she takes the-mantle of dark-lord of the-sith from she master.
in fate of the-jedi, in fate of the-jedi marries taryn-zel, despite previously expressing romantic-interest in jaina.
first featured in the-lost-city of the-jedi and later-returns in star-wars: rebellion.
list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars books ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), forming what is collectively referred to as the-original-trilogy.
years later, a-prequel-trilogy was released, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
in 1984 and 1985, two-live-action-films featuring the-ewoks were televised in the-united-states and released theatrically in europe.
the-first-film released, star-wars (1977), is the-fourth-film chronologically and was later subtitled episode-iv – a-new-hope.
the-story follows each-generation of the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family and the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family struggle against the-evil-sith-lord-palpatine (darth-sidious).
an-animated-film, the-clone-wars (2008), was released as a-pilot to a-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-first-entry, rogue one: a-star-wars-story (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans directly before episode-iv.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
preceding the-airing of the-animated-tv-series in late 2008, the-theatrical-feature star-wars: the-clone-wars was compiled from episodes "almost [as] an-afterthought.
it reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith; the-series explains padawan-ahsoka-tano's-absence from the-latter-film.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-film and series exist in the-same-level of canon as the-episodic-and-anthology-films.
before selling lucasfilm to disney in 2012, and parallel to his-development of a-sequel-trilogy, george-lucas and original-trilogy-co-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan started development on a-standalone-film about a-young-han-solo.
the-death-star-laser was developed by scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) after the-empire forcibly abducted scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen), separating scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) from scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) daughter-jyn.
in may 2014, lucasfilm announced gareth-edwards as the-director of an-anthology-film, with gary-whitta writing the-first-draft for a-release on december 16, 2016.
the-film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated-star-wars-tv-series, namely-the-clone-wars'-saw-gerrera, portrayed by forest-whitaker in the-film.
the-film received generally-positive-reviews, with the-film performances, action-sequences, soundtrack, visual-effects and darker-tone being praised.
the-film grossed over us$500 million worldwide within a-week of the-film release.
after an-escape-attempt from his-imperial-occupied-home-planet of corellia goes wrong, a-young-han vows to return to rescue a-young-han girlfriend qi'ra.
before selling lucasfilm to disney, george-lucas had hired star-wars-original-trilogy-veteran-lawrence-kasdan to write a-film about a-young-han-solo.
lucasfilm originally hired phil-lord and christopher-miller to direct, but phil-lord and christopher-miller were fired during principal-photography, and replaced by ron-howard.
a-twist-ending acknowledges one of the-major-story-arcs of the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-series, while leaving the-story open ended for sequels.
during disney-investor-day 2020, rogue-squadron (2023) ==== was announced that patty-jenkins would direct a-film titled rogue-squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023.
the-film will be the-first-film in the-franchise directed by a-woman, and according to starwars.com, "will introduce a-new-generation of starfighter-pilots as they earn they wings and risk
according to jenkins, the-film will be "something original with great-influence from the-games and the-books.
in mid-2018, lucasfilm confirmed that multiple-anthology-films were in development, with multiple-anthology-films release following a-hiatus after 2019's-the-rise of skywalker.
the-ewoks from return of the-jedi were featured in two-spin-off-television-films, the-ewok-adventure and ewoks:
both are set between the-events of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
although based on story-ideas from lucas, both do not bear star-wars in both-titles, and were considered to exist in a-lower-level of canon than both.
the-battle for endor would be the-last-live-action-star-wars-television-project produced by lucasfilm until 2019's-the-mandalorian.
among other-stylistic-choices making the-film unique from the-star-wars-episodes is the-inclusion of a-narrator.
in december 2020, a-droid-story, an-animated-adventure-film for disney+ was announced.
the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
in august 2017, an-undisclosed-spin-off-film was rumored that films focused on jabba the-hutt, and jedi-masters-obi-wan and yoda were being considered or were in development.
at d23-expo in august 2019, at d23-expo was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
felicity-jones, who played jyn-erso in rogue-one, has the-option of another-star-wars-film in her-contract; notwithstanding her-character's-fate in rogue-one, it has been speculated that her could return in other-anthology-films.
lucasfilm swiftly denied the-rumors as "inaccurate", confirming that multiple-unannounced-films were in development.
game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss were to write and produce a-trilogy of star-wars-films scheduled to be released in december 2022, 2024, and 2026, which were first announced to be in development in february 2018.
however, citing game of thrones-creators david-benioff and d.-b.-weiss commitment to a-netflix-deal, the-duo stepped away from the-project in october 2019.
list of star-wars cast members list of star-wars characters list of star-wars television series
a-new-hope) is a-1977-american-epic-space-opera-film written and directed by george-lucas, produced by lucasfilm and distributed by 20th-century-fox.
star-wars focuses on the-journey of luke-skywalker (hamill), who along with the-wizened-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi (guinness), smuggler-han-solo (ford), and his-wookiee-companion-chewbacca (mayhew), attempts to free princess-leia (fisher) from the-clutches of the-tyrannical-galactic-empire.
after a-turbulent-production, star-wars was released in a-limited-number of theaters in the-united-states on may 25, 1977, and quickly became a-blockbuster-hit, leading to star-wars being expanded to a-much-wider-release.
the-film opened to critical-acclaim, most notably for
the-film groundbreaking-visual-effects.
the-film grossed a-total of $775 million (over $550 million during the-film initial run), surpassing jaws (1975) to become
the-film at the-time until the-release of e.t. the-extra-terrestrial (1982).
when adjusted for inflation, star-wars is the-second-highest-grossing-film in north-america (behind gone with the-wind) and the-fourth-highest-grossing-film in the-world.
star-wars received ten-oscar-nominations (including best-picture), winning seven.
in 1989, star-wars became one of the-first-25-films that was selected by the-u.s.-library of congress for preservation in the-national-film-registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
the-film's-success led to two-critically-and-commercially-successful-sequels, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), and later to a-prequel-trilogy, a-sequel-trilogy, two-anthology-films and various-spin-off-tv-series.
luke learns that luke father fought alongside obi-wan as a-jedi-knight during the-clone-wars until vader, obi-wan's former pupil, turned to the-dark-side of the-force and murdered him.
as the-group arrives in the-asteroid-field that now stands in place of alderaan, han spots an-imperial-tie-fighter and is taunted into chasing an-imperial-tie-fighter and shooting an-imperial-tie-fighter down, allowing the-millennium-falcon the-millennium-falcon to be captured by the-space-station's-tractor-beam.
using a-tracking-device, the-empire tracks the-death-star with leia to the-hidden-rebel-base, actually located on yavin-iv.
according to mifune's-daughter, mika-kitagawa, japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) father turned down lucas' offers for kenobi and darth-vader because "japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) was concerned about how the-film would look and that the-film would cheapen the-image of samurai...
guinness was one of the-few-cast-members who believed that the-film would be successful; japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) negotiated a-deal for 2.25% of the-one-fifth-gross-royalties paid to lucas, which made japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) quite wealthy in later-life.
believing that the-bleak-tone of thx 1138 led to its-poor-reception, lucas chose to make star-wars more optimistic; this is what led to its-fun-and-adventurous-tone.
frustrated that his-story was too difficult to understand, lucas then began writing a-13-page-treatment called the star wars on april 17, 1973, which had narrative-parallels with kurosawa's-1958-film the-hidden-fortress.
kurtz said, "although star-wars wasn't like [then-current-science-fiction] at all, it was just sort of lumped into that-same-kind of category.
"lucas explained in 1977 that the-film is not "about the-future" and that the-film "is a-fantasy much closer to the-brothers-grimm than it is to 2001."
lucas would later recontextualize the-discussion around the-film, saying the-film was born out of research into "psychological-underpinings of mythology", a claim that had been dismissed by kurtz as self-aggrandizing: "
the-whole-idea of star-wars as a-mythological-thing, i think came about because of [later--lucas]-interviews that tied the-film to the-hero with a-thousand-faces" and by steven-hart and michael-kaminski: "it is here that the-true-origin of star-wars comes from -- not from myth and legend, but from the-'schlock' sold on newspapers stands and played in matinees.
after disney rejected the-project, lucas and kurtz persisted in securing a-studio to support the-film because "other-people had read the-film and said, 'yeah, the-film could be a-good-idea.'
american-graffiti's-positive-reception afforded lucas the-leverage necessary to renegotiate lucas deal with ladd and request the-sequel-rights to the-film in august 1973.
this-draft was also the first to introduce the-concept of a jedi turning to the-dark-side: this-draft included a-historical-jedi who was the first to ever fall to the-dark-side, and then trained the-sith to use this-version.
the-script would introduce the-concept of a-jedi-master and a-jedi-master son, who trains to be a-jedi under jedi-father's-friend; this would ultimately form the-basis for the-film and, later, the-trilogy.
according to lucas, the-second-draft was over 200 pages long, and led lucas to split up the-story into multiple-films spanning over multiple-trilogies.
these-claims are doubted by michael-kaminski and chris-taylor, with michael-kaminski pointing out that bettelheim's-book would not come out until after star-wars was filmed and adding that "the-original-trilogy-campbell-connection is greatly exaggerated and practically non-existent", noting that, in fact, the-second-draft is "even closer to campbell's-structure" than the-third.
lucas stated that the-story evolved over time and that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as it exists now [in 1983] ...
after the-film's-smash-success, lucasfilm announced that lucas had already written "twelve-stories in the-adventures of luke-skywalker" which, according to kurtz, were set to be "separate-adventures rather than direct-sequels. "
subsequently, lucas started writing with a-budget in mind, conceiving the cheap, "used" look of much of the-film, and (with fox having just shut down the-film special effects department) reducing the-number of complex-special-effects-shots called for by the-script.
the-third-draft, dated august 1, 1975, was titled the star wars from the-adventures of luke-starkiller.
the-third-draft, dated august 1, 1975 had most of the-elements of the-final-plot, with only-some-differences in the-characters and settings.
the-film was ambitious as lucas wanted to create fresh-prop-prototypes and sets (based on mcquarrie's-paintings) that had never been realized before in science-fiction-films.
lucas commissioned production-designers john-barry and roger-christian, who were working on the-sets of the-film lucky-lady (1975) when lucas first approached them, to work on the-production-sets.
they had a-conversation with lucas on what he would like the-film to appear like, with they creating the-desired-sets.
"the-designers started working with the-director before star-wars was approved by 20th-century-fox.
ilm began ilm work on star-wars in a-warehouse in van-nuys.
however, since the-film is a-fairy-tale, as george-lucas had described, "i still wanted the-film to have an-ethereal-quality, yet be well composed and, also, have an-alien-look."
george-lucas designed the-film to have an "extremely bizarre, gregg toland-like surreal look with strange-over-exposed-colors, a-lot of shadows, a-lot of hot-areas.
" lucas wanted star-wars to embrace the-combination of "strange-graphics of fantasy" and "the-feel of a-documentary" to impress a-distinct-look.
with a-background in independent-filmmaking, lucas was accustomed to creating most of the-elements of the-film himself.
originally, lucas envisioned the-planet of tatooine, where much of the-film would take place, as a-jungle-planet.
" given this-situation, lucas requested heavy-filtration, which taylor rejected, who said: "i thought the-look of the-film should be absolutely clean ...
but george saw the-film differently, so we tried using nets and other-diffusion.
star-wars required the-use of nine-different-sound-stages simultaneously, which most-studios couldn't accommodate.
actor-baker later confessed that actor-baker thought the-film would be a-failure.
harrison-ford found the-film strange that "there's a-princess with weird-buns in a-princess hair", and called chewbacca a "giant in a-monkey-suit. "
star-wars was originally slated for release on christmas 1976; however, star-wars production delays pushed the-film's-release to mid-1977.
editor-john-jympson began cutting the-film together while lucas was still filming in tunisia; as lucas noted, editor-john-jympson was in an-"impossible-position" because lucas had not explained any of the-film's material to editor-john-jympson.
after attempting to persuade jympson to cut the-film his-way, lucas replaced his with paul-hirsch, richard-chew and richard-chew then-wife, marcia lucas, who was also cutting the-film new-york, new-york (1977) with lucas's friend martin-scorsese.
richard-chew considered the-film to have been cut in a slow, by-the-book manner: scenes were played out in master-shots that flowed into close-up-coverage.
the-most-significant-material-cut was a-series of scenes from the-first-part of the-film which introduced luke-skywalker.
so we simplified the-film by taking out luke and biggs.
in an-examination of this-early-cut, which has come to be called the "lost cut", david-west-reynolds noted the-film adopted a-"documentary-like"-approach that emphasized "clarity, especially in geographic-and-spatial-relationships" over "dramatic-or-artistic-concerns".
as a-result, the-film was more "leisurely paced".
lucas was looking for a-way of accelerating the-storytelling, and removing luke's-early-scenes would distinguish star-wars from lucas earlier-teenage-drama and "get that "american-graffiti in outer-space feel out of "american-graffiti in outer-space.
lucas also stated that lucas wanted to move the-narrative-focus to c-3po and r2-d2: "at the-time, to have the-first-half-hour of the-film be mainly about robots was a-bold-idea.
in february 1977, lucas screened an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book.
an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book had a-different-crawl from the-finished-version and used prowse's-voice for darth-vader's.
an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book also lacked most-special-effects; hand-drawn-arrows took the-place of blaster-beams, and when the-millennium-falcon fought tie-fighters, an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book cut to footage of world-war-ii-dogfights.
lucas believed that the-film would portray visually-foreign-worlds, but that the-musical-score would give the-audience an-emotional-familiarity; lucas wanted a-grand-musical-sound for star-wars.
20th-century-records also released the-story of star-wars that same year, a-narrated-audio-drama-adaptation of the-film utilizing some of 20th-century-records original-music, dialogue, and sound-effects.
according to george-lucas, different-concepts of the-film were inspired by numerous-sources, such as beowulf and king-arthur for the-origins of myth and religion.
star-wars features many-elements derived from flash-gordon, such as the-conflict between rebels and imperial-forces, the-wipes between scenes, the-fusion of futuristic-technology and traditional-mythology, and the-famous-opening-crawl that begins each-film.
the-film has also been compared to the-wizard of oz.
the-influence of the-hidden-fortress can be seen in the-relationship between c-3po and r2-d2, which evolved from the-two-bickering-peasants, tahei and matashichi, and a-japanese-family-crest seen in the-film is similar to the-imperial-crest.
star-wars also borrows heavily from another-kurosawa-film, yojimbo (1961).
arrakis is the-only-known-source of a-longevity-spice; star-wars makes references to spice in "the-spice-mines of kessel", and a-spice-freighter.
frank-herbert reported that "david-lynch, [director of the-1984-film-dune] had trouble with the-fact that star-wars used up so much of the-1984-film-dune.
in addition, the-sequence was partially inspired by the-climax of the-film 633 squadron (1964), directed by walter-grauman, in which raf-de-havilland-mosquitos attack a-german-heavy-water-plant by flying down a-narrow-fjord to drop special-bombs at a-precise-point, while avoiding anti-aircraft-guns and german-fighters.
the-earlier-big-budget-science-fiction-film influenced the-look of star-wars in many-other-ways, including the-use of eva-pods and hexagonal-corridors.
while the-film was in production, a-logo was commissioned from dan-perri, a-title-sequence-designer who had worked on the-titles for films such as the-exorcist (1973) and taxi-driver (1976).
fox and lucasfilm subsequently decided that fox and lucasfilm wanted to promote the-uk-release with a-less-stylized-and-more-realistic-depiction of the-lead-characters.
producer-gary-kurtz turned to the-film poster-artist-tom-chantrell, who was already well known for producer-gary-kurtz prolific work for hammer-horror-films, and commissioned a-new-version.
two months after star-wars opened, the-hildebrandts'-style-‘b’-poster was replaced by chantrell's-style-‘c’-poster in uk-cinemas.
a fan of science-fiction, charles-lippincott used charles-lippincott contacts to promote the-film at the-san-diego-comic-con and elsewhere within science-fiction-fandom.
while initially being released only in a-limited-theatrical-run, star-wars was an-unprecedented-success for 20th-century-fox, soon becoming a-blockbuster-hit and expanding to a-much-wider-release.
worried that star-wars would be beaten out by other-summer-films, such as smokey and the-bandit, 20th-century-fox moved the-release-date to may 25, the wednesday before memorial-day.
however, fewer-than-40-theaters ordered the-film to be shown.
in response, the-studio demanded that theaters order star-wars if fewer-than-40-theaters wanted the-eagerly-anticipated-the-other-side of midnight based on sidney-sheldon's-1973-novel by the-same-name.
star-wars debuted on wednesday, may 25, 1977, in fewer-than-32-theaters, and eight more on thursday and friday.
lucas himself was not able to predict how successful star-wars would be.
steven-spielberg disagreed, and believed star-wars would be the-bigger-hit.
while fox requested mann's-chinese-theatre, the-studio promised that the-film needed only-two-weeks.
fearing that the-film would fail, lucas had made plans to be in hawaii with lucas wife marcia.
having forgotten that the-film would open that day, the-film spent most of wednesday in a-sound-studio in los-angeles.
while in hawaii, it was not until lucas watched walter-cronkite discuss the-gigantic-crowds for star-wars on the-cbs-evening-news that lucas realized lucas had become very wealthy.
the-film was a-huge-success for 20th-century-fox, and was credited for reinvigorating the-company.
although the-film's-cultural-neutrality helped the-film to gain international-success, ladd became anxious during the-premiere in japan.
after the-screening, the-audience was silent, leading him to fear that the-film would be unsuccessful.
after two-weeks william-friedkin's-sorcerer replaced star-wars at mann's-chinese-theatre because of contractual-obligations; mann-theatres moved the-film to a-less-prestigious-location after quickly renovating the-film.
when star-wars made an-unprecedented-second-opening at mann's-chinese-theatre on august 3, 1977, after william-friedkin's-sorcerer failed, thousands of people attended a-ceremony in which c-3po, r2-d2 and darth-vader placed thousands of people footprints in the-theater's-forecourt.
at that-time star-wars was playing in 1,096-theaters in the-united-states.
approximately-60-theaters played the-film continuously for over-a-year; in 1978, lucasfilm distributed "birthday-cake"-posters to approximately-60-theaters for special-events on may 25, the-one-year-anniversary of the-film's release.
star-wars premiered in the-uk on december 27, 1977.
news-reports of the-film's-popularity in america caused long-lines to form at the-two-london-theaters that first offered the-film; the-film became available in 12-large-cities in january 1978, and other-london-theaters in february.
star-wars was re-released theatrically in 1978, 1979, 1981 and 1982, with the-subtitle episode-iv – a new hope being added in 1981.
star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes in 1997 for a-theatrical-rerelease, dubbed the "special edition."
since star-wars-original-release, star-wars has also been dubbed and subtitled into numerous-languages.
in 2013, star-wars was dubbed into navajo, making it the first major motion picture translated into a-native-american-language.
the-title was changed when the-film entered re-releases.
official-sources state that the-change was made at the-theatrical-re-release of april 10
, 1981.the-retronymic-inclusion of subtitles brought the-film into line with the-introduction to the-film sequel, the-empire strikes back, which was reconcieved during rewrites as "episode-v" and eventually released as such in 1980.
star-wars was the-fourth-story in the-saga and was to have been called 'star-wars, episode four:
for steven-spielberg's-1993-film-jurassic-park's-20th-anniversary in 1997, star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes and re-released to theaters, along with the-empire
strikes back and return of the-jedi
, under the-campaign-title star-wars trilogy: special edition.
the-process of creating the-new-visual-effects for star-wars was featured in the-documentary-film, special effects:
once the-cleaning was complete, the-film was scanned into the-computer for restoration.
, the-1977-theatrical-version of star-wars was selected for preservation by the-national-film-registry of the-united-states-library of congress.
the-whole-film was released for all-these-countries (including subtitled-silent-editions and an-american-spanish-language-edition), except for italy, where the-film (titled "guerre stellari") was released by ie-international as eight-brief-scenes: battaglia-spaziale ("space-battle", the-battle of yavin), duello-col-laser ("duel with the-laser", obi-wan and darth vader's duel), la-cattura dell'astronave
star-wars debuted on betamax, ced, laserdisc, video 2000, and vhs between the-1980s and 1990s by cbs/fox video.
the-final-issue of the-original-theatrical-release (pre-special-edition) to vhs-format was released for the-first-time on dvd on september 21, 2004, in a-box set with the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and a-bonus-disc of supplementary-material.
the-bonus-disc contains the-documentary-empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy, three-featurettes, teasers, theatrical-trailers, tv-spots, still-galleries, an-exclusive-preview of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, a-playable-xbox-demo of the-lucasarts-game-star-wars: battlefront, and a-making-of-documentary on the-episode-iii-video-game.
the-set was reissued in december 2005 as part of a-three-disc-limited-edition-boxed-set without the-bonus-disc.
the-trilogy was re-released on separate-two-disc-limited-edition-dvd-sets from september 12 to december 31, 2006, and again in a-limited-edition-tin-box set on november 4, 2008; the-original-versions of the-films were added as bonus-material.
all-six-star-wars-films were released by 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment on blu-ray-disc on september 16, 2011 in three-different-editions, with a-new-hope available in both-a-box-set of the-trilogy and with all-six-films on star-wars:
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
fox released a-new-hope for digital-download on april 10, 2015.
in december 2016, rogue-one-director-gareth-edwards revealed that lucasfilm had recently completed a-4k-restoration of star-wars, but did not elaborate on whether the-restored-version was based on the 1977 original or a-subsequent-re-release.
walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued the-film on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
star-wars remains one of the-most-financially-successful-films of all-time.
star-wars opened on a-wednesday in 32-theaters expanding to 43-screens on the-friday and earning $2,556,418 in star-wars first six-days to the-end of the-memorial-day-weekend ($10.8 million in 2019-dollars).
per variety's-weekly-box-office-charts, star-wars was number one at the-us-box-office for star-wars first three weeks.
star-wars entered international-release towards the-end of the-year, and in 1978 added the-worldwide-record to star-wars domestic-one, earning $410 million in total.
star-wars biggest-international-market was japan, where star-wars grossed $58.4 million.
total gross in the-united-states and canada to $460,998,007, reclaiming the-all-time-number-one-spot.
in total, the-film has grossed over $775 million worldwide.
adjusted for inflation, the-film had earned over $2.5 billion worldwide at 2011-prices, which saw the-film ranked as the-third-highest-grossing-film at the-time, according to guinness-world-records.
at the-north-american-box-office, the-film ranks second behind gone with the-wind on the-inflation-adjusted-list.
the-film was met with critical-acclaim upon the-film release.
in his-1977-review, roger-ebert of the-chicago-sun-times called the-film "an out-of-body experience," compared its-special-effects to those of 2001: a space odyssey, and opined that the-true-strength of
the-film was
the-film "pure-narrative."
vincent-canby of the-new-york-times called the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made."
a.d. murphy of variety described the-film as "magnificent" and said george-lucas had succeeded in george-lucas
writing for the-washington-post, gary-arnold gave the-film a-positive-review, writing that the-film "is a-new-classic in a-rousing-movie-tradition: a-space-swashbuckler."
however, the-film was not without the-film detractors: pauline-kael of the-new-yorker criticized star-wars, stating that "there's no-breather in the-picture, no-lyricism", and that the-film had no-"emotional-grip."
john-simon of new-york-magazine also panned the-film and wrote, "strip-star-wars of the-film often striking images and the-film highfalutin scientific jargon, and you get a-story, characters, and dialogue of overwhelming-banality."
stanley-kauffmann, reviewing the-film in the-new-republic, opined that the-film in the-new-republic "was made for those (particularly-males) who carry a-portable-shrine within a-portable-shrine of a-portable-shrine adolescence, a-chalice of a-self that was better
star-wars opened in the-uk, stating that lucas's-earlier-films were better, derek-malcolm of the-guardian concluded that it "plays enough-games to satisfy the most sophisticated."
the-daily-telegraph's-science-correspondent-adrian-berry said that star-wars "is the-best-such-film since 2001 and in certain-respects it is one of the most exciting ever made."
the-film continues to receive critical-acclaim from modern-critics.
" in his-1997-review of the-film's-20th-anniversary-release, michael-wilmington of the-chicago-tribune gave the-film four-out-of-four-stars, saying, "a-grandiose-and-violent-epic with a-simple-and-whimsical-heart."
a-san-francisco-chronicle-staff-member described the-film as "a-thrilling-experience.
in 2001 matt-ford of the-bbc awarded the-film five out-of-five-stars and wrote, "star-wars isn't the-film, but "star-wars is universally loved."
cinemascore reported that audiences for star-wars 1999 re-release gave the-film a-"a+"-grade.
andrew-collins of empire-magazine awarded the-film five out of five and said, "star-wars'-timeless-appeal lies in star-wars'-timeless-appeal easily identified, universal-archetypes—goodies to root for, baddies to boo, a-princess to be rescued and so on—and if it is most obviously dated to the-70s by the-special-effects, so be it is."
in his-2009-review, robert-hatch of the-nation called the-film "an outrageously successful, what will be called a 'classic,' compilation of nonsense, largely derived but thoroughly reconditioned.
star-wars garnered numerous-accolades after star-wars release.
star-wars won six-competitive-academy-awards at the-50th-academy-awards: best-art-direction, best-costume-design, best-film-editing, best-original-score, best-sound and best-visual-effects.
john-williams's-soundtrack-album won the-grammy-award for best-album of original-score for a-motion-picture-or-television-program, and the-film attained the-hugo-award for best-dramatic-presentation.
the-film also received twelve-nominations at the-saturn-awards, winning nine:
star-wars launched the-careers of many of the-film's-actors: mark-hamill (luke-skywalker), harrison-ford (han-solo), carrie-fisher (princess-leia), peter-mayhew (chewbacca), anthony-daniels (c-3po), and james-earl-jones (voice of darth-vader).
ford, who subsequently starred in the-indiana-jones-series (1981–present), blade-runner (1982), and witness (1985) after working on the-film, told the-daily-mirror that star-wars "boosted my-career", and said, "i think the-great-luck of my-career is that i've made these-family-movies which are introduced to succeeding generations of kids by generations of kids-families at the-time it seems appropriate. "
the-film has spawned a-series of films consisting of three-trilogies (including the-film), anthology-films and an-extensive-media-franchise called the star wars expanded universe including books, television-series, computer and video-games, and comic-books.
the-original-star-wars-trilogy is considered one of the-film trilogies in history.
all of the-main-films have been box-office-successes, with the-overall-box-office-revenue generated by the-star-wars-films (including the-animated-the-clone-wars) totaling over $10.1 billion, making it the second highest-grossing film series as of 2019.the-film also spawned the-star-wars-holiday-special, which debuted on cbs on november 17, 1978 and is often considered a failure; lucas himself disowned it.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was written by brian-daley and directed by john-madden, and was produced with cooperation from george-lucas, who donated the-rights to npr.
the-radio-drama-narrative began with a-version of the-backstory to the-film which relates princess-leia's-acquisition of the-secret-death-star-plans.
a-version of the-backstory to the-film which relates princess-leia's-acquisition of the-secret-death-star-plans was originally considered to be part of the-official-star-wars-canon, but has since been supplanted by revised-canonical-narratives.
star-wars and its-ensuing-film-installments have been explicitly referenced and satirized across a-wide-range of media.
lucas permitted mel-brooks's to make a-spoof of the-film under "one-incredibly-big-restriction: no-action-figures.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after. "
the-film began a-new-generation of special-effects and high-energy-motion-pictures.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
filmmakers who have said to have been influenced by star-wars include james-cameron, j.j.-abrams, damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, gareth-edwards, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, peter-jackson, joss-whedon, christopher-nolan, ridley-scott, john-singleton, and kevin-smith.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film, inception.
in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg-spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth."
in an-article intended for the-cover of the-issue, time's-gerald-clarke wrote that star-wars is "a-grand-and-glorious-film that may well be the smash hit of 1977, and certainly is the-best-movie of the-year so far.
star-wars was voted the second most popular film by americans in a-2008-nationwide-poll conducted by the-market-research-firm, harris-interactive.
star-wars has also been featured in several-high-profile-audience-polls: in 1997, star-wars ranked as the-10th-greatest-american-film on the-los-angeles-daily-news-readers'-poll; in 2002, the-film and star-wars sequel
reputable-publications also have included star-wars in reputable-publications best-films-lists: in 2008, empire-magazine ranked star-wars at no.
in addition to the-film's-multiple-awards and nominations, star-wars has also been recognized by the-american-film-institute on several of the-american-film-institute lists.
the-novelization of the-film was published as star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker in december 1976, six months before the-film was released.
marketing-director-charles-lippincott secured the-deal with del-rey-books to publish the-novelization of the-film in november 1976.
alan-dean-foster also wrote the-sequel-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978) to be adapted as a-low-budget-film if star-wars was not a-financial-success.
marvel-comics also adapted the-film as the-first-six-issues of marvel-comics licensed star-wars-comic-book, with the-first-issue sold in april 1977.
the-series was so successful that, according to jim-shooter, the-series "single-handedly saved marvel.
lucasfilm adapted the-story for a-children's-book-and-record-set.
the-record was produced by buena-vista-records, and the-record content was copyrighted by black-falcon, ltd., a-subsidiary of lucasfilm "formed to handle the-merchandising for star-wars."
the-story of star-wars was a-1977-record-album presenting an-abridged-version of the-events depicted in star-wars, using dialogue and sound-effects from the-original-film.
the-story of star-wars was produced by george-lucas and alan-livingston, and was narrated by roscoe-lee-browne.
, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
, the-empire strikes back, was released in 1980.
in 1983, the-final-installment of the-trilogy, return of the-jedi, was released.
a-book of star-wars facts and production-timeline.
the-empire strikes back (1980)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005)
return of the-jedi from star-wars to the-jedi:
star-wars-locations and their-gps-coordinates---article featuring every-filming-location, lat/long-coordinates and scene comparisons star-wars-locations - fan site devoted to star-wars filming locations star-wars filming locations category on wookieepedia star-wars filming locations category on 501st
episode-ii: attack of the clones episode-iii: revenge of the sith episode iv:
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi-episode-vii:
below is a-list of actors and actresses that are part of the-voice-cast of the-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars and its-corresponding-film.
actors who appear by original-recordings from revenge of the-sith to represent their-characters in the-final-season-episode "shattered" include: hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, jackson as mace-windu and ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine.
list of star-wars cast members ==
the-clone-wars at the internet movie database
star-wars is an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.
on august 15, 2008, the-debut-film was released in theaters; the-debut-film served as the-introduction of an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.. an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc.
made the-debut-film-debut on the-american-cartoon-network on october 3, 2008.
an-american-3d-cgi-animated-television-series created by lucasfilm-animation, lucasfilm-animation singapore, and cgcg-inc. is set in the-fictional-star-wars-galaxy during the-three-year-interim between episode-ii-–-attack of the-clones and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (the-same-time-period as the-previous-2003-clone-wars-series).
during the-course of the-series, 133-episodes of star-wars: the-clone-wars were released over seven-seasons, between october 3, 2008, and may 4, 2020.
on march 11, 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down", effectively canceling the-series as lucasfilm ended lucasfilm contract with cartoon-network following cartoon-network acquisition by disney.
season 6, along with the-other-seasons and the-feature-film, were made available on netflix on march 7, 2014.in july 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes on disney+.
12-new-episodes on disney+ served as the-series'-final-season, which premiered on february 21, 2020 and concluded the-series on may 4, 2020.
as a-lead-in to the-tv-series of the-same-name, the-film was released theatrically on august 15, 2008, and was distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
though critical-reception was negative, the-film was a-box-office-success and grossed $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget.
star-wars aired on october 3, 2008, and set a-new-record with cartoon-network as cartoon-network most-watched-series-premiere, attracting 3.992-million-total-viewers.
the season two-premiere, "holocron-heist", was broadcast on october 2, 2009 and attracted 2.581-million-viewers.
meanwhile, the-jedi lead the-republic-forces in an-assault on the-primary-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility.
the-one-hour-season-finale combined of "r2 come home" and "lethal-trackdown" was broadcast on april 30, 2010 and the-original-broadcast received 2.756-million-viewers.
the season three-premiere, consisting of "clone-cadets" and "arc-troopers," was broadcast on september 17, 2010, attracting 2.42-million-viewers.
the-season-finale, consisting of "padawan lost" and "wookiee-hunt", was broadcast on april 1, 2011, attracting 2.31-million-viewers.
the season four-premiere, consisting of "water-war" and "gungan-attack", was broadcast on september 16, 2011, and attracted 1.93-million-viewers, the-lowest-premiere-viewing of all-seasons.
the-season five-premiere, "revival", was broadcast on september 29, 2012, and attracted 1.94-million-viewers.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes to be released on disney+
while the-series is designed to be an-anthology of both-standalone-episodes and small-story-arcs, various-events throughout inform-stories, characters, and relationships to create a-recognizably-continuous-narrative.
in september 2014, lucasfilm released details of multiple-story-arcs from the-unfinished-episodes.
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul: son of dathomir ====
the-scripts and designs for a-four-episode-arc were adapted into a-four-issue-comic-book titled darth maul: son of dathomir, released in august 2014 by the-publisher dark-horse-comics.
the-comic was the-last-star-wars-comic published by dark-horse before lucasfilm transferred the-license to marvel-comics in 2014 and was collected into a-trade-paperback by marvel in 2018.the plot follows darth-maul, who has been captured by darth-sidious.
the-story follows vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released in completed-story-reel-format, titled: "
the-arc takes place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-story reels for this-four-episode-arc were screened on april 17, 2015, at star-wars-celebration-anaheim, and were released on the-official-star-wars-website on april 29, 2015.
list of star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-list of star-wars:
this is a-list of star-wars cast-members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983) and reprised the-roles in the-sequel
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith (2005) as a-younger-obi-wan-kenobi, being top billed in the-later-two-films.
daniels also appeared in solo, but as a-different-character named "tak", as well as a character named "dannl faytonni" in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, the latter being alongside c-3po.
in 2008, an-animated-film entitled star wars: the-clone-wars was released.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
despite the-decanonization, the-television-films do retain many-major-cast-members from the-original-trilogy reprising the-television-films roles; the-holiday-special featured most of the-cast from the-original-film, while the-ewok-prequel-films featured warwick-davis reprising his-role as wicket, who originated in return of the-jedi.
star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith star wars episode iv:
the-empire strikes back star-wars-episode-vi:
return of the-jedi-star-wars episode vii:
the-clone-wars is a-2008-computer-animated-epic-space-opera-film directed by dave-filoni (in the-clone-wars feature directorial-debut), produced by lucasfilm-ltd. and lucasfilm-animation, and distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
in star-wars: the-clone-wars, count-dooku and jabba the-hutt's-uncle ziro orchestrate a-plot to turn jabba against the-galactic-republic by framing the-jedi for the-kidnapping of his-son, which would in turn allow ziro to take over jabba's criminal empire after jabba is arrested.
the-film marks the-first-appearances of fan-favorite-characters tano and captain-rex in the-franchise.
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day.
the-clone-wars was the-first-star-wars-film to not be distributed by 20th-century-fox, and the first to be completely animated.
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day received largely-negative-reviews, becoming the-worst-reviewed-theatrically-released-star-wars-film with critics panning the-writing, animation, tone, repetitive-action-scenes, dialogue and the-decision to release the-pilot-episodes as a-feature-length-film, while some-praise was directed at the-voice acting and score.
while the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day was a-commercial-success, grossing $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget,
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day is also the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the-next-day.
the-clone-wars served as the-backdoor-pilot to the-cartoon-network-television-series of the-same-name, which had a-far-more-favorable-reception than
the-film premiered on august 10, 2008, at grauman's-egyptian-theatre, followed by a-wide-release in australia on august 14 and in the-united-states, canada and the-united-kingdom the next day.
the-events of the-film chronologically take place between the-clone-wars-season-1-episode "the-hidden-enemy" and the-season-3-episode "clone-cadets".
following the-battle, yoda arrives and informs the-jedi that crime lord-jabba the-hutt's-son rotta has been kidnapped.
unknown to the-jedi, the-plot has been engineered by dooku's-sith-master-darth-sidious, who hopes to frame the-jedi for rotta's-kidnapping in order to get jabba to ally with the-separatists and fuel anti-jedi-sentiment from the-hutts.
the-jedi the-jedi manage to escape the-trap along with r2-d2 and hijack a-derelict-transport with which they travel to tatooine.
the-hutt refuses to cooperate, apparently believing that the-hutt is the-jedi who are responsible for the-situation.
however, padmé soon discovers that ziro has actually conspired with dooku to have rotta killed, so that jabba would execute anakin and ahsoka in return and be taken into custody by the-jedi-council, which will allow ziro to seize power over the-hutt-clan.
the two deliver the-real-rotta safely to jabba, who nonetheless orders the-jedi to be executed for their-supposed-kidnapping-attempt.
star-wars was made to serve as both-a-stand-alone-story and a-lead-in to the-weekly-animated-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-story of the-kidnapped-hutt was inspired by the-sonny-chiba-samurai-film titled shogun's shadow.
lucasfilm-and-lucasfilm-animation used autodesk-software to animate both-the-film and the-series using the-maya-3d-modeling-program to create highly-detailed-worlds, characters and creatures.
lucas also felt it should not look like the-popular-pixar-movies such as the-incredibles, because lucas wanted the-film and characters to have it own unique-style.
animators also reviewed designs from the-original-2003-clone-wars-series when creating the-animation-style for the-film and the-new-series.
star-wars was composed by kevin-kiner.
the-original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released by sony-classical on august 12, 2008.
on august 15, mcdonald's held mcdonald's first ever happy meal promotion for a-star-wars-film and for four-weeks, 18-exclusive-toys came in specially-designed-happy-meal-boxes.
randy-stradley, vice-president of publishing for dark-horse, said the-sudden-decision to release the-clone-wars-film required the-clone-wars to temporarily delay plans for two-other-star-wars-comic-book-series, dark-times and rebellion.
also released was the-clone-wars: the-visual-guide, published by dk, and star-wars: the-clone-wars in the-uk, published by puffin and in the-u.s. by grosset & dunlap.
at the-american-international-toy-fair, lego announced a-product-line for the-film and the-tv-series, to be released in july 2008 in the-united-states and on august 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-lucasarts-video-game-developer adapted the-film into star-wars:
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance for the-nintendo-ds and star-wars: the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels for wii.
a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk said a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk expectations for jedi-alliance were low due to poor-clone-wars-movie-reviews, but a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk found the-game "a-varied-and-well-paced-experience."
the-clone-wars-mp3-player was released in august 2008.
the-clone-wars-open-wheel-car for the-indycar-series, ran august 24 on the-infineon-raceway in the-sonoma-mountains in california.
a-novelization of the-film by karen-traviss was released by del-rey-books on july 26, 2008.
in addition to narrating the-film by karen-traviss's-plot from various-points of view, the-film by karen-traviss includes some of anakin's-memories of anakin early-childhood as a-hutt-slave, as well as some of dooku's-recollections of battling the-mandalorians (previously explored in the-2002-comic-book jango-fett: open-seasons).
the-film's-two-disc-dvd and blu-ray-disc was released on november 11, 2008 in the-united-states and on december 8, 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-film was released as a-single-disc-dvd, two-disc-special-edition-dvd, and blu-ray-disc.
the-standard-definition-versions include the-film in widescreen-format with dolby-digital-5.1-surround-ex-sound, and with feature-length-audio-commentary.
the-film is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
the-film was panned by critics.
on rotten-tomatoes, the-film has an-approval-rating of 18% based on 170-reviews, with an-average-rating of 4.2/10.
the-site's-critical-consensus reads: "mechanical-animation and a-less-than-stellar-script make the-clone-wars a pale shadow of george-lucas'-once-great-franchise.
entertainment-weekly listed star-wars: the-clone-wars as one of the-five-worst-films of 2008 with critic-owen-gleiberman saying, it's hard to tell the-droids from the-jedi-drones in this-robotic-animated-dud, in which the-george-lucas-empire strikes back—at the-audience.
cool-news posted two-reviews of the-film during the-week before the-film release, but pulled them down due to an-embargo placed on those attending the-screening the-film writers attended.
the-retraction prompted some-readers to allege a-conspiracy by lucasfilm to keep negative-press out of circulation until the-release of the-film, but although the-review by site-creator-harry-knowles was negative, drew-mcweeny said that drew-mcweeny was positive and that no-such-conspiracy existed.
several-critics compared the-clone-wars to a-saturday-morning-cartoon and described a-saturday-morning-cartoon as little more than a-plug for the-upcoming-animated-series.
the-clone-wars is to star-wars what-karaoke is to pop music.
the-main-criticism toward the-film was the-animation.
many criticized the-film as cheap, wooden, non-engaging and out-of-date; some-reviewers drew negative-comparisons to 1960s
roger-ebert gave the-film 1.5-stars out of 4 and said "the-characters have hair that looks molded from play-doh, bodies that seem arthritic, and moving lips on half-frozen-faces—all signs that shortcuts were taken in the-animation-work."
jason-anderson, of the-globe and mail, wrote that although the-clone-wars is intended for younger-audiences, "parents may be perturbed by the-film's-relentless-violence."
the-clone-wars earned $68,282,845 worldwide, including $35,161,554 in north-american-domestic-box-office-grosses and $33,121,290 in international-grosses.
the-film earned $14,611,273 on 3,452-screens in
the-film-opening-day, august 15.
the-film was $8.5 million, frugal considering the-film was a-cgi-film and because the-film was meant to introduce the-animated-series.
fellman said, " the-film was targeted to a-specific-audience for specific-reasons.
" when the-clone-wars dropped to $5.6 million in the-clone-wars second week of release, contactmusic.com described contactmusic.com as "the-first-bona-fide-star-wars-flop.
the-film also earned $23,428,376 from dvd-sales in the-us.
the-film was nominated for a-golden-raspberry-award in the-category "worst-prequel, remake, rip-off or sequel", but lost to indiana-jones and the-kingdom of the-crystal-skull.
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at box-office-mojo-star-wars:
the-clone-wars on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
star-wars is a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas.
a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas began with a-theatrical-feature-film which was released on august 15, 2008, and debuted on cartoon-network two months later on october 3, 2008.
attack of the-clones and episode iii: revenge of the-sith.
the-clone-wars was a-massive-ratings-success, becoming one of cartoon-network's-highest-rated-shows during the-clone-wars initial run.
throughout the-clone-wars run, the-previous-series received mostly-positive-reception from critics, receiving praise for the-clone-wars writing, action, characters, visuals, voice-acting, music, scale and tone.
the-series has also garnered a massive fan following and was also nominated for many-industry-awards, including the-daytime-emmy-awards and the-annie-awards.
in early 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down".
the-series was revived for a-seventh-and-final-season of 12-new-episodes, which premiered on disney+
star-wars is set during the-prequel-trilogy-era, in the-period of three-years between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
star-wars focuses on the-eponymous-conflict between the-galactic-republic, which is supported by the-jedi-order, and the-confederacy of independent-systems, a-movement organized by the-sith-lord-count-dooku to unite numerous-planetary-systems seeking independence from the-republic against star-wars.
unbeknownst to the-galaxy, darth-sidious, dooku's-secret-master, is the-one pulling the-strings of both-sides, as part of his-master-plan to eliminate the-jedi and gain enough-power to create a-new-governing-state under his-rule.
the-series was initially conceived as an-anthology, with episodes sharing little-narrative-connections between the-series, but later-seasons feature story arcs that span several-episodes.
this-season focuses heavily on bounty-hunter-characters, with one-story-arc featuring darth-sidious hiring cad-bane to steal a-holocron from the-jedi-temple on coruscant that will help hunter locate force-sensitive-children, while another-deals with boba-fett beginning boba-fett bounty hunter career and, alongside a-group of more-experienced-mercenaries, seeking revenge against mace-windu for killing mace-windu father.
other-major-story-arcs focus on the-planet-mandalore, which took a-neutral-stance in the-clone-wars and whose pacifist leader, duchess-satine-kryze, is targeted by both-the-separatists and the-mandalorian-terrorist-faction death-watch; and the-jedi-leading-republic-forces in an-assault on the-main-separatist-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility on geonosis.
during season three, several-story-arcs focus on the-development of certain-characters, such as anakin, who is led to an-ancient-force-realm alongside obi-wan and ahsoka, and learns more about the-nature of the-force and his-role as the chosen one; ahsoka, who defies anakin's orders to join his-team in a-mission to break a-jedi-master out of a-separatist-prison, and must later lead her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans when her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans find her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans hunted by trandoshans; and ventress, who is betrayed by dooku, returns to her-nightsister-clan on dathomir, and tries to exact revenge on her through a-jedi-master new apprentice, savage-opress, who ultimately turns on both ventress and dooku to follow his-own-path.
other-story-arcs feature obi-wan faking obi-wan death and going undercover as a-bounty-hunter to thwart a-plot to capture chancellor-palpatine; ventress abandoning obi-wan sith ways and becoming a-bounty-hunter after the-separatists'-massacre of the-nightsisters; and savage finding savage-long-lost-brother, darth-maul, who seeks revenge against obi-wan for obi-wan
the-second-arc revolves around a-team of droids who, while undertaking a-mission to intercept an-encrypted-separatist-message, encounter an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando and must help an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando recover an-amnesiac-former-clone-commando memories to escape the-planet they have been stranded on.
the-fourth-arc deals with the-return of darth-maul, who joins forces with death-watch and other-criminal-syndicates to take over mandalore and exact revenge on obi-wan.
the-final-arc, which is set concurrently with revenge of the-sith, depicts the-siege of mandalore, a-battle that had been referenced in previous-star-wars-media.
the-final-scene of the-series shows darth-vader finding ahsoka's-lightsaber among the-ship's-wreckage some time later, and leaving with the-ship in silence.
the-series started with a-theatrically-released-animated-film; this-decision were made after the-production-team watched completed footage of several-early-episodes for the-planned-television-series, which were ultimately combined into a-single-feature-length-film.
for the-film, christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood reprised anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood roles as count-dooku, c-3po, mace-windu, and the-b1-battle-droids, respectively, from the-live-action-movies, but christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood would not return for the-television-series.
on december 5, 2011, a full-length feature cut of one of the-season-3-trilogies of episodes (the-one composed by "nightsisters,"-"monster," and "witches of the-mist") was released for download on itunes as an-uninterrupted-movie that was previously shown at selected-screenings in 2010.
the-series was cancelled in march 2013, after the-conclusion of the-series fifth-season, as a-result of the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm and the-decision to remove most-star-wars-expanded-universe works from canon.
despite this, the-clone-wars was one of the-few-pieces of star-wars-media to remain part of the-new-continuity established by disney, and a-sixth-season was released on march 7, 2014 on netflix, along with additional-media, such as comic-books and novels, based on unfinished-story-arcs that would have been included in the-season.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes in a-seventh-season to be released on disney+.
a-trailer for the-season was released on april 14, 2019 at star-wars-celebration-chicago.
on august 23, 2019, series-creator-dave-filoni announced at the-d23-expo that series-creator-dave-filoni will be the-final-season.
at april 2005's star-wars-celebration-iii, george-lucas stated that "we are working on a-3-d-continuation of the-pilot-series that was on the-cartoon-network; we probably won't start that-project for another-year. "
sansweet referred to the-pilot-series that was on the-cartoon-network as "the-next-generation of the-star-wars-saga, a-cutting-edge-30-minute,-3-d-computer-animation-series based on the-clone-wars that take place between episode ii ... and episode iii."
primary-production took place at the-lucasfilm-animation-facility in singapore.
" sansweet has said that "a-large-component of the-future of star-wars and lucasfilm is cgi-animation."
speaking at paleyfest on march 3, 2007, lucas revealed that the-series would be episodic, and as such would not focus on anakin-skywalker's-story; with episodes dedicated to clone troopers and other-characters.
the-first-trailer for the-series was released on the-official-star-wars-website on may 8, 2007.
in an-interview in the-september-24,-2007-issue of tv-guide, lucas confirmed that 39-episodes of the-series had been completed.
on april 8, 2007, ain't it cool-news reported that musician-eric-rigler had recorded music for the-series.
the-"young-padawans"-arc from season 5 was intended to be aired separately from the-clone-wars as a-feature-length-pilot for a-spin-off-series that never materialized.
seasons 6, 7, and 8, were in some-form of production at the-time of the-show's-cancellation in march 2013, shortly after lucasfilm was purchased by disney.
an-online-comic released alongside the-series depicts story-snippets between episodes.
the-clone-wars premiered on october 3, 2008 at 9-p.m. on cartoon-network.
the-show began airing on their-adult-swim-block on march 14, 2009, making the-series the first cartoon network series to simultaneously air on both-cartoon-network and adult-swim.
the-series the-first-cartoon-network-series also aired from january 15 to march 26, 2009 on tnt, making the-series the-first-cartoon-network-series the-first-form of animation to air on that-channel in over-a-decade.
the-show has been taken off the-air in off-network syndication since fall 2013 due to low-costs and was not renewed for season 2 in the 2013-2014 tv season due to disney's-completed-acquisitions of lucasfilm-ltd in december 2012.
on march 11, 2013, it was announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down" to focus on the-star-wars sequel trilogy and a new series, star-wars-rebels.
the-show was removed from netflix on april 7, 2019.
for the revival and final-season, the-remaining-episodes of the-series are exclusively available on disney+.
the-clone-wars – the-lost-missions.
apart from the season-by-season videodisc sets, there were also three-special-dvd-releases consisting of four-episodes from a-particular-season that reflected a-certain-story-arc or theme: a-galaxy divided, an-early-dvd-release of the-series which included the-four-season-1-episodes ("ambush", "shadow of malevolence", "destroy malevolence", "downfall of a-droid")
although it began with mixed-to-positive-reviews, the-series achieved critical-acclaim over time.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "with an-agreeably-entertaining-first-season, star-wars: the-clone-wars opens a-fun,-kid-friendly-chapter of the-franchise's-sprawling-mythology. "
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "sophisticated-storytelling-and-quality-animation make the-sixth-season of star-wars
: the-clone-wars a fitting end to the-series. "
on august 31, 2008, a-sneak-peek of the-new-series was shown on cartoon-network.
star-wars became the-most-watched-series-premiere in cartoon-network-history.
the-series averaged 3-million-total-viewers in the-series debut, according to nielsen-media-research.
tech-times said that, "while the-star-wars-prequel-films fail to make audiences care about characters like anakin-skywalker, the-clone-wars succeeds.
during may 2020, following the-release of the-seventh-season on disney+, the-clone-wars became the-most-streamed-digital-original-show in the-united-states.
in september 2014, starwars.com released details of three-story-arcs from the-unfinished-episodes.
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul following the-events from the-season-5-episode "the-lawless", detailing his-escape from sidious; darth-maul regains control of the-criminal-shadow-collective, and battles dooku, grievous, and sidious.
the-story follows vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released on the-official-star-wars-website.
the-arc took place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-unfinished-animatics for the-bad-batch, a-four-episode-arc, were screened at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in anaheim, california on april 17, 2015.
a-four-part-story-arc focusing on a-ragtag-unit of clone-commandos of the-same-name was subsequently released on starwars.com for free shortly after on april 29, 2015.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance, an-action-adventure-game released on november 11, 2008 for nintendo-ds.
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance, an-action-adventure-game released on november 11, 2008 for nintendo-dsnintendo-ds.
clone-wars-adventures, an-online-pc-game launched on september 15, 2010 online by sony-online-entertainment and shut down on march 31, 2014.
the-clone-wars, released in march 2011 by tt-games for playstation 3, playstation portable, xbox 360, wii, nintendo ds, pc, mac, and nintendo 3ds, which further stylizes the-characters as part of the-lego-star-wars-theme and is mostly based on the-first-two-seasons.
disney-infinity 3.0, released in september 2015 by disney-interactive for playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, microsoft-windows, ios and android, which stylizes select-major-characters from the-show as action-figures that become playable only via a toys-to-life nfc system.
each-copy of the-game comes with the-playset, "twilight of the-republic", which is an-alternate-storyline set during the-clone-wars-era, along with two-starting-characters, anakin and ahsoka.
several-levels in the-main-campaign also take place on the-planet-felucia, a-major-clone-wars-hotspot featured in some-episodes.
star-wars: galaxy of heroes, a-turn-based-rpg also released on ios and android by electronic-arts, where some-levels take place on planets depicted in the-show (such as dathomir) and a-number of collectible,-playable-characters are from the-show (such as dathomir).
star-wars-battlefront-ii, a-video-game available on microsoft-windows, playstation 4 and xbox-one, in which players can battle on or directly above planets like ryloth and kamino, where some-battles in the-series were fought.
the-clone-wars at starwars.com
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at the-big-cartoon-database-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at imdb-‹the
the-clone-wars at tv.com
the-first-live-action-series in the-franchise, the-mandalorian, premiered in november 2019, and spawned three-spin-offs, the-book of boba-fett, rangers of the-new-republic and ahsoka.
nelvana, the-animation-studio that produced the-animated-segment of the-holiday-special, was hired to create two-animated-series which aired together on abc: droids (1985–1986) follows the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2, and its-sister series-ewoks (1985–1987) features wicket and other-members of the-titular-species from return of the-jedi, both set before the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ===
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) was introduced through a-2008-animated-film of the-same-name.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series is set between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith of the-prequel-trilogy.
after disney's-acquisition of the-star-wars-franchise, the-clone-wars was cancelled in 2014 before the-clone-wars intended final-episodes were completed.
the-chronological-storyline-order was released after the-series had initially finished airing.
the-film and series were included in the-canon established in 2014.
the-film and series was later revived for an-additional-final-season that premiered on february 21, 2020, on the-streaming-service disney+.
due to the-film rogue-one being produced at the-same-time, the-film and the-series acknowledged each other.
the-series also included an-in-canon-version of grand-admiral-thrawn from the-legends
the-second-and-final-season premiered on october 6, 2019.
the-series was announced in july 2020, to debut on disney+
announced on december 10, 2020, star-wars: visions is an-anime-anthology-series of ten-short-films by different-creators set in the star-wars universe.
cartoon-network produced and aired the-micro-series-clone-wars from 2003 to weeks before the-2005-release of revenge of the-sith, as the-series featured events set between those-films.
the-plot in the-series was intended as prequel to then-upcoming-feature-movie-episode-iii: revenge of the-sith and directly leads to the-starting-point in the-movie.
the-plot in the-series won the-primetime-emmy-awards for outstanding-animated-program in 2004 and 2005.
using stylized-animation, the-series of shorts reimagine key-scenes from the-saga, initially leading up the-release of episode-ix.
star-wars roll out debuted on the star-wars kids youtube channel and website in august 2019.
io9 calls the-design of the-series "adorable".
a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+ follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in august 2018, it was reported that the-series would cost about "$100 million for 10-episodes".
the-series premiered on november 12, 2019, with the-launch of disney+.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
it will be released in december 2021.
the-series will follow rebel-spy-cassian-andor, five years before the-events of rogue one, during the-formative-years of the-rebellion.
in november 2018, a-prequel-series to the-2016-film rogue one centered on rebel-spy-cassian-andor was confirmed to be in development, and described as a-"rousing-spy-thriller".
in april 2019, alan-tudyk was confirmed to be reprising alan-tudyk role of k-2so.
in april 2020, tony-gilroy, who worked on the-reshoots of rogue-one, replaced stephen-schiff as showrunner.
it was also revealed in april 2020 that stellan-skarsgård, kyle-soller,
in september 2020, it was announced that gilroy would step down from gilroy directing duties in light of the-covid-19-pandemic and would be replaced by toby-haynes, who is set to direct the-first-three-episodes.
in august 2019, it was reported that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise ewan-mcgregor role from the-prequel-trilogy.
during the-2019-d23-expo, lucasfilm officially announced that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise his-role from the-prequel trilogyewan-mcgregor ewan-mcgregor .
it will take place eight years after revenge of the-sith and prior to the-events of a-new-hope, thus exploring the-time during kenobi's-exile on tatooine.
in september 2019, deborah-chow and hossein-amini were announced as the-series'-director and writer, respectively, who will also serve as executive-producers alongside mcgregor.
in october 2019, mcgregor said the-series' would comprise six-episodes.
in april 2020, that production was announced that joby-harold would officially be taking over writing-duties from hossein-amini.
in august 2020, mcgregor told thewrap that it would be a-limited-series.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in april 2020, variety reported that a-female-centric-live-action-star-wars-series is in development for disney+
in early-november, russian-doll-co-creator-leslye-headland expounded that the-series would be set "in a-pocket of the-universe and a-pocket of the-timeline that we don't know much about," elaborating that she was more engaged creatively with the-geography of the-universe than its-existing-visuals.
on november 5, deadline reported that the-series was expected to be an-"action-thriller with martial-arts-elements".
on disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that the-series would take place during the-late-high-republic-era.
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
in december 2020, lando was announced as a-disney+-limited-series, focusing on the-titular-character, with a-story by justin-simien.
in december 2020, rangers of the-new-republic was announced.
first announced in december 2019, the-series debuted on the-star-wars-kids-website and youtube-channel on june 10, 2020.
the-series features young-contestants competing as jedi-padawans in a-series of obstacle-courses and knowledge-tests in the-attempt to gain the-rank of jedi-knight.
the-series was described as "gritty and dark" and was expected to feature characters such as han-solo, chewbacca, lando-calrissian, boba-fett, c-3po, and emperor-palpatine.
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
producer-rick-mccallum revealed the-working-title, star-wars: underworld, in 2012, and that it would focus on criminal-and-political-power-struggles in the-"period when the-empire is trying to take things over. "
the-project was still being considered after lucasfilm was sold to disney, including by abc, with stories being reviewed as of december 2015.
the-story of han winning the-millennium-falcon from lando was planned to be featured and later developed as solo:
in early 2020, stargate-studios shared test-footage made to promote the-series to networks, as well as a-google-doc listing production-details for the-series.
a-mandalorian-spin-off-series centered on the-character cara-dune was reportedly considered for disney+ by november 2020, which lucasfilm had intended to announce at disney's-investor-day-event the next month.
lego-star-wars-§-films and videos-list of star-wars cast members-list of star-wars characters
list of star-wars-films ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), forming what is collectively referred to as the-original-trilogy.
years later, a-prequel-trilogy was released, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
in 1984 and 1985, two-live-action-films featuring the-ewoks were televised in the-united-states and released theatrically in europe.
the-first-film released, star-wars (1977), is the-fourth-film chronologically and was later subtitled episode-iv – a-new-hope.
the-story follows each-generation of the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family and the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family struggle against the-evil-sith-lord-palpatine (darth-sidious).
an-animated-film, the-clone-wars (2008), was released as a-pilot to a-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-first-entry, rogue one: a-star-wars-story (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans directly before episode-iv.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
preceding the-airing of the-animated-tv-series in late 2008, the-theatrical-feature star-wars: the-clone-wars was compiled from episodes "almost [as] an-afterthought. "
it reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith; the-series explains padawan-ahsoka-tano's-absence from the-latter-film.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-film and series exist in the-same-level of canon as the-episodic-and-anthology-films.
before selling lucasfilm to disney in 2012, and parallel to his-development of a-sequel-trilogy, george-lucas and original-trilogy-co-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan started development on a-standalone-film about a-young-han-solo.
its-laser was developed by scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) after the-empire forcibly abducted scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen), separating scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) from scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) daughter-jyn.
in may 2014, lucasfilm announced gareth-edwards as the-director of an-anthology-film, with gary-whitta writing the-first-draft for a-release on december 16, 2016.
the-film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated-star-wars-tv-series, namely-the-clone-wars'-saw-gerrera, portrayed by forest-whitaker in the-film.
the-film received generally-positive-reviews, with the-film performances, action-sequences, soundtrack, visual-effects and darker-tone being praised.
the-film grossed over us$500 million worldwide within a-week of the-film release.
after an-escape-attempt from his-imperial-occupied-home-planet of corellia goes wrong, a-young-han vows to return to rescue a-young-han girlfriend qi'ra.
before selling lucasfilm to disney, george-lucas had hired star-wars-original-trilogy-veteran-lawrence-kasdan to write a-film about a-young-han-solo.
lucasfilm originally hired phil-lord and christopher-miller to direct, but phil-lord and christopher-miller were fired during principal-photography, and replaced by ron-howard.
a-twist-ending acknowledges one of the-major-story-arcs of the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-series, while leaving the-story open ended for sequels.
during disney-investor-day 2020, rogue-squadron (2023) ==== was announced that patty-jenkins would direct a-film titled rogue-squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023.
a-film titled rogue squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023 will be the-first-film in the-franchise directed by a-woman, and according to starwars.com, "will introduce a-new-generation of starfighter-pilots as they earn they wings and risk
according to patty-jenkins, a-film titled rogue squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023 will be "something original with great-influence from the-games and the-books.
in mid-2018, lucasfilm confirmed that multiple-anthology-films were in development, with multiple-anthology-films release following a-hiatus after 2019's-the-rise of skywalker.
the-ewoks from return of the-jedi were featured in two-spin-off-television-films, the-ewok-adventure and ewoks:
both are set between the-events of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
although based on story-ideas from lucas, do not bear star-wars in titles, and were considered to exist in a-lower-level of canon than the-episodic-films.
the-battle for endor would be the-last-live-action-star-wars-television-project produced by lucasfilm until 2019's-the-mandalorian.
among other-stylistic-choices making the-film unique from the-star-wars-episodes is the-inclusion of a-narrator.
in december 2020, a-droid-story, an-animated-adventure-film for disney+ was announced.
the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
the-film was additionally nominated for outstanding-children's-program but lost in this-category to an-episode of american-playhouse.
the-film additionally received two-nominations for outstanding-children's-program and outstanding sound mixing for a-miniseries or a-special.
in august 2017, it was rumored that films focused on jabba the-hutt, and jedi-masters-obi-wan and yoda were being considered or were in development.
at d23-expo in august 2019, it was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
felicity-jones, who played jyn-erso in rogue-one, has the-option of another-star-wars-film in her-contract; notwithstanding her-character's-fate in rogue-one, it has been speculated that her could return in other-anthology-films.
lucasfilm swiftly denied the-rumors as "inaccurate", confirming that multiple-unannounced-films were in development.
game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss were to write and produce a-trilogy of star-wars-films scheduled to be released in december 2022, 2024, and 2026, which were first announced to be in development in february 2018.
however, citing game of thrones-creators david-benioff and d.-b.-weiss commitment to a-netflix-deal, the-duo stepped away from the-project in october 2019.
list of star-wars cast members
list of star wars characters list of star-wars-television-series ===
attack of the-clones (2002), episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005),
during the-clone-wars, they served under the-command of the-jedi-order, but ultimately turned on they and killed they, as a-result of palpatine issuing order 66, which branded the-jedi as traitors and ordered they deaths.
during development of the empire strikes back, lucas initially conceived a-planet of clones, which is why the-clone-wars was mentioned for the-first-time in the-original-star-wars (1977)-film.
the-armored-troopers in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith are computer-generated-images voiced by temuera-morrison, who played jango.
in writing the empire strikes back, leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war, but this-concept was not featured in the-film.
initial-concept-models implied that the-first-generation-armor was thicker and bulkier than stormtrooper-armor, and this-characteristic was retained by the-art-department for revenge of the-sith.
lucas expressed a-desire for individualized-trooper-armor from the-beginning of art-development for revenge of the-sith.
the clone trooper designs "progressed" closer toward the-stormtrooper-designs, and the-film included variant-designs similar to the-sandtrooper, scout-trooper, and snowtrooper-armor of the-original-trilogy.
in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, all-clone-troopers are computer-generated-images and are voiced by temuera-morrison, who played the-clone-template jango-fett.
commander-cody, seen in armor without his-helmet in revenge of the-sith, was played by morrison.
like morrison, taylor also played armored-and-unhelmeted-clones in revenge of the-sith, wearing a-blue-bodysuit that isolated his-head.
the-clone-troopers are voiced by dee-bradley-baker in the-2008-animated-film the-clone-wars and the-clone-wars related animated-television-series of the-same-name.
the-army is deployed to geonosis under the-command of the-jedi to rescue obi-wan, anakin-skywalker, and padmé-amidala from execution by the-separatists.
in revenge of the-sith (2005), set three years later, the-clone-army continues to fight in the-clone-wars against the-separatist-battle-droid-army.
the-clone-troopers kill the-clone-troopers the-jedi-commanders, although a few manage to escape, while the-501st-legion, led by the-newly-christened-darth-vader, storms the-jedi-temple, burning the-jedi-temple and killing the-jedi inside, which effectively ends the-jedi order.
the-clone-wars ====
it is also revealed that in the-years after the-end of the-clone-wars, the-empire gradually replaced the-aging-clones with the-less-effective-but-more-numerous-stormtroopers.
in the-novels lords of the-sith by paul-s.-kemp, and tarkin by james-luceno, several-clone-troopers are still in active-service during the-early-years of the-empire's-reign, such as among stormtroopers serving darth-vader, and even among the-emperor's-elite-imperial-guard.
they first appear in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, where they search for yoda's-body in the-senate-building after commander-fox-duel with darth-sidious and later help darth-sidious recover darth-vader's-body on mustafar.
in season seven, a-skirmish broke out onboard former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano's-venator-class-star-destroyer during the-final-days of the-clone-wars when clone-troopers of the-332nd-company and coruscant-guard received order 66 from supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine.
first appears unnamed in revenge of the-sith under the-leadership of commander-appo, and they assault the-jedi-temple on coruscant under order 66.
legion include: 332nd-company, which was active during the-clone-wars after former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano left the-jedi-order.
she leads them at the-siege of mandalore, which takes place at the-same-time as the-beginning of revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which he and other-members of the-501st carry out order 66 and follow anakin, now-darth-vader, in attacking the-jedi-temple on coruscant.
in the-seventh-season of the-series (which overlaps with revenge of the-sith), captain-rex ==== is promoted to commander and leads part of the-501st-legion, called the-332nd-legion (ahsoka-troopers) in the-siege of mandalore alongside ahsoka.
rex later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
later, after his-rescue from separatist-capture, his is visibly a-cyborg, with various-apparatus protruding from his-head and a-droid-plug in place of his-right-hand; post-rescue, his takes to wearing what appears to be a-stripped-down-variant on standard-phase-ii-armor.
the-ship crashed into a-planet during a randomized hyperspace jump to escape a-republic-attack and protect "dooku's-prize".
he served in the-umbara-campaign and was key to the-capture of treasonous-jedi-general-pong-krell, supporting and siding with he friend fives even after fives had been condemned to death by krell and stunning the-jedi after a-fierce-battle with mutinous-501st-clones led by rex.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith during the-battle of utapau, aiding obi-wan against general-grievous on utapau.
he later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith aiding jedi-general-yoda on kashyyyk.
he armor bears green-markings, and he appears in green-camouflage-armor in revenge of the-sith.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which he and he men carry out order 66 and shoot aayla in the-back, killing aayla.
jedi-general-plo-koon later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
when rex and gregor are sought by the-rebel-protagonists, wolffe is suspicious of rex and gregor motives and contacts the-empire to protect himself, rex, and gregor.
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
principal-photography began in august 2018 at pinewood-studios in england and wrapped in february 2019, with post-production completed in november 2019.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
the-film grossed over $1.074 billion worldwide, becoming the-seventh-highest-grossing-film of 2019; although the-film was the-lowest-grossing-installment of the-trilogy, the-film turned an-estimated-net-profit of $300 million.
the-film received three-nominations at the-92nd-academy-awards (best-original-score, best-visual-effects, and best-sound-editing) as well as three at the-73rd-british-academy-film-awards (also-best-special-visual-effects, best-original-music, and best-sound).
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa-naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance domhnall gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire
lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi-joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
jodie-comer and billy-howle briefly appear as rey's-parents, while tom-wilton and screenwriter chris-terrio briefly appear as the-performer and voice for aftab-ackbar, the-son of admiral-ackbar, respectively; and mike-quinn and kipsang-rotich return as the-performer and voice of nien-nunb, respectively.
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was announced as the-director of the-film; colin-trevorrow was to write the-script with frequent-collaborator-derek-connolly.
carrie-fisher died in december 2016.
”in august 2017, it was announced that jack-thorne would rewrite the-script.
in september 2017, lucasfilm stated that trevorrow had left the-production following creative-differences, resulting trevorrow working relationship with kathleen-kennedy to become unmanageable after failing to deliver a-satisfactory-script, despite writing several-drafts.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
the-story was rewritten to some-extent before filming was completed.
the-film was produced by abrams'-company-bad-robot-productions, kathleen-kennedy, and michelle-rejwan.
carrie-fisher, who played leia-organa, died on december 27, 2016.
in january 2017, lucasfilm stated that there were no-plans to digitally generate fisher's-performance as lucasfilm had for rogue one (2016).
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
principal-photography began on august 1, 2018, at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, england.
filming also took place in wadi-rum, jordan.
due to the-tight-schedule, some-editing took place on set.
footage from the-film was shown at the-walt-disney-company's-annual-shareholders-meeting on march 7, 2019.
two-weeks of reshoots took place at pinewood involving hamill, ridley, and isaac in july 2019.
another-round of reshoots took place between late-september and october.
roger-guyett finished post-production on november 25, 2019.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
in august 2019, it was revealed that williams had written about 35 of an-expected-135-minutes of music for the-film, which according to williams brother don, would incorporate all of the-major-themes of the-skywalker-saga.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 20, 2019.
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
on august 24, a-new-poster and "sizzle-reel" was released at d23; the latter was released to the public two days later.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the novel details palpatine's-return in more-depth : palpatine transferred palpatine consciousness into a-clone-body following palpatine death in return of the-jedi, and palpatine "son", rey's-father, was a-failed-clone of palpatine.
the-junior-novel and corresponding-audiobook are by michael-kogge and were released on april 21, 2020.
additionally, a-five-issue-marvel-comics-adaptation written by jody-houser and illustrated by will-sliney was originally planned to debut in mid-2020, but this was later canceled, making the-film the first in the-franchise not to receive a-comic-adaptation.
in december 2019, the video game star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017)
on december 14, fortnite's-publisher-epic-games released a-preview of the-film on an in-game theater screen as a-live-event.
the-film was originally planned to be released in the-united-states on may 24, 2019, before being pushed back to december 20.
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-tcl-chinese-theatre in los-angeles on december 16.
unlike most-studio-films, disney reportedly did not hold test-screenings for the-rise of skywalker, instead only showing the-film to abrams'-friends and family, as well as a-terminally-ill-fan.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-4k-version of the-film was released on disney+
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $300 million when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale on october 21, 2019, and the-film sold more-tickets in pre-sale-tickets first hour of availability on atom-tickets than the-previous-record-holder for ticket-sales, avengers: endgame (2019).
the-film made $90 million on christmas-day, including $40 million from thursday-night-previews.
the-film went on to debut to $177.3 million, and the-film was also noted that saturday (which saw a-47%-drop from friday's gross) was the-busiest-shopping-day of the-year, likely affecting ticket-sales.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-film went on to have a-five-day-total of $138.8 million, including $76 million for the-weekend.
in the-film third-weekend, the-film made $34.5 million, remaining in first, before being dethroned in
the-film fourth weekend by newcomer 1917 (2019).worldwide-the-film was projected to gross around $450 million in
the-film made $59.1 million from the-film first day of international-release in 46-countries.
in china, the-film made $1.6 million (rmb11.6 million) through the-film first day.
the-film went on to open to $198 million from overseas-countries and $373.5 million worldwide, coming in below projections and 47% lower than the-last-jedi's-total.
as of january 2020, the-film is the-lowest-rated-live-action-film of the-star-wars-series.
richard-roeper, reviewing for the-chicago-sun-times, gave the-film three-stars out of four, writing that the-film "rarely comes close to touching-greatness, but the-film's a-solid,-visually-dazzling-and-warmhearted-victory [for] quality-filmmaking."
the-a.v.-club's-a.-a.-dowd gave the-film a-c+, stating that the-film "is so freighted with obligation that the-film almost groans under the-weight, flashing a-weak-smile as it vaguely approximates the-appearance of a-zippy-good-time."
michael-phillips for chicago-tribune wrote that the-film "does the-job.
mick-lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
owen-gleiberman of variety called the-film "the most elegant, emotionally rounded, and gratifying star-wars-adventure since the-glory-days of star-wars (1977) and the empire strikes back (1980) [...]
the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film "'s acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
z this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only those which are considered part of the-official-star-wars-canon, as of the-changes made by lucasfilm in april 2014.
following its-acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-novels, comics, video-games and other-works produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars as star-wars legends and declared them non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise.
as such, z-this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only-information from the-skywalker-saga-films, the-2008-animated-tv-series star-wars: the-clone-wars, and works published after april 2014.
to see those or characters who do not exist at all in the-current-star-wars-canon, see the-list of star-wars-legends-characters and list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters.
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes their-vulnerability and weakness.
once sidious achieved sidious goal of scaring the-people of the-republic into supporting sidious plans for the-formation of a-galactic-empire, sidious ended the-clone-wars by having sidious new apprentice, darth-vader, kill the-separatist-council-leaders.
rogue one is a-squad of rebel-soldiers formed in the-film of the-same-name that embarked on a-suicide-mission to steal the-death-star's-schematics.
the-empire was eventually defeated by the-rebel-alliance and collapsed, but some-remnants continued to exist for 30-years and reunited to form the-first-order.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
humans who are native to the-planet of naboo.
humans who are native to the-planet of tatooine.
humans who are native to the-planet of sorgan.
the-aqualish are a-species of tusked-humanoids from the-planet ando.
blarina ==== are a-species of short,-pudgy,-sentient-humanoids from the-planet rina-major.
the-er'kit are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet er'kit.
= are a-humanoid,-sentient-species from the-planet dorin.
nosaurians are a-humanoid-sentient-species from the-planet new-plympto.
the-xexto are a-species of short,-four-armed-humanoids from the-planet troiken.
zygerrians are a-humanoid,-feline-like-sentient-species from zygerria, who had built and run the-biggest-slave-empire in the-galaxy, until the-jedi overthrew them and outlawed slavery.
attempts to rebuild the-biggest-slave-empire were made during the-clone-wars and the-imperial-era, but were thwarted.
list of the-mandalorian-characters list of star-wars creatures list of star-wars droid characters list of star-wars legends characters
list of star-wars rebels characters list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars cast members list of star-wars:
star-wars cast members
