the-force awakens" and "journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi", and "journey to star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker".
all-titles under the-rise of skywalker" are canonical to the-star-wars-universe.
three-novels and a-comic-miniseries related to the-2017-film star-wars: the-last-jedi were announced in april 2017.
two-novels, a-comic-miniseries, and a-number of children's-books related to the-2019-film star-wars: the-rise of skywalker were announced in may 2019.
in april 2014, with the-force awakens in production, disney rebranded this-body of work as star-wars-legends and declared disney non-canon to the-franchise.
journey to star-wars : the-force awakens", consisting of "at-least"-20-novels and comic-books from multiple-publishers, was announced in march 2015.
all-titles under the-program are canonical to the-star-wars-universe, and connect the-previous-films with the-force awakens and the-force
at the-october-2015-new-york-comic-con-panel for the-journey to star-wars: the-force awakens, more-works were announced that would be released from november 2015 through summer-2017.three-novels and a-comic-book-miniseries related to the-second-sequel-film, the-last-jedi, were announced at the star-wars celebration in april 2017.
the-last-jedi at the-san-diego-comic-con in july 2017.on star wars day, may 4, 2019, lucasfilm released the-roadmap of the-last-jedi at the-san-diego-comic-con in july 2017.on star wars day, may 4, 2019
the-rise of skywalker"-campaign leading up to the-final-film of the-sequel-trilogy and the-nine-film-skywalker-saga.
the-publishing-program is said to detail events occurring over a-one-year-period in the-time taking place between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker.
the-force awakens == ===
empire's-end (february 2017) by chuck-wendigaftermath is set shortly after the-1983-film-return of the-jedi and deals with the-consequences of the-deaths of palpatine and darth-vader, as well as the-power-vacuum formed in empire's-rule over the-galaxy and the-actions of the-rebellion during the-following-months.
the-trilogy begins to bridge the-star-wars-timeline between return of the-jedi and the-force awakens.
the-empire strikes back (1980).
the-empire strikes back.
in the-novel, c-3po tells resistance-pilot-jessica-pava the-story of luke-skywalker's-adventure after the-destruction of the-first-death-star as well as one of luke-skywalker's-first-trials with the-force.
a-princess-leia-adventure (september 2015) by cecil-castellucci and jason-fry, set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
in the-novel, an older leia organa recounts a-past-mission for leia-organa-memoirs.
star-wars: before the-awakening (december 2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers about the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
star-wars: bloodline (may 2016) by claudia-gray, set several years before the-force awakens with leia-organa as the-protagonist.
the-four-part-limited-series shattered-empire was published by marvel-comics between september 9 and october 21, 2015, and is set immediately after return of the-jedi.
the-story involves their-adventures alongside leia, han, luke-skywalker, lando-calrissian and others in the-aftermath of the-battle of endor as the-empire attempts to avoid total-defeat.
set immediately before the-force awakens, marvel's poe dameron centers on the-resistance-x-wing-fighter-pilot portrayed in the-film by oscar-isaac.
it explores poe's-adventures before the-start of the-film by oscar-isaac, and includes appearances by poe's-astromech-droid bb-8, new-x-wing-pilots and a-new-villain from the-first-order positioned as poe's-nemesis and whom charles-soule describes as "fresh and cool".
ships of the-galaxy (september 2015) by benjamin-harper
the-force awakens incredible-cross-sections (december 2015) by jason-fry-star-wars:
the-force awakens visual-dictionary (december 2015) by pablo-hidalgo
the-force awakens (december 2015) by phil-szostak ==
the-last-jedi ==
the-legends of luke-skywalker (october 2017) by ken-liu-star-wars:
a-leader named leia (september 2017) by jennifer-heddle-star-wars:
the-power of the-force (september 2017) by brian-rood
tales of the-force (september 2017) ===
the-four-issue-miniseries follows the-character between the-events of the force awakens and the-last-jedi.
the-art of star-wars: the-last-jedi by phil-szostak
the-rise of skywalker == ===
star-wars: resistance-reborn (november 2019) by rebecca-roanhorse, covers the-difficulties general-leia-organa, poe-dameron, finn, and rey have in rebuilding the-resistance following the-defeat to the-first-order escaping d'qar and the-battle of crait.
force-collector (november 2019) by kevin-shinick, follows a-teenager prior to the-events of the force awakens as force-collector (november 2019) by kevin-shinick scavenges for relics to make sense of force-collector (november 2019) by kevin-shinick force abilities and force-collector (november 2019) by kevin-shinick possible-connection to the-jedi.
: we are the-resistance (october 2019), written by elizabeth-schaefer and illustrated by alan-baston.
the-force awakens, the-last-jedi, and the-rise of skywalker.
spark of the-resistance (october 2019), written by justina-ireland and illustrated by phil-noto.
the-rise of skywalker -
the-galaxy needs you (december 2019), written by caitlin-kennedy and illustrated by eda-kaban.
follow rey on caitlin-kennedy-hero's-journey.
the-rise of kylo-ren (marvel, november 2019–march 2020), written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-story explores the-backstory of kylo-ren and the-knights of ren, and the-era of the-new-republic.
the-rise of skywalker (december 2019) by phil-szostak-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker-visual-dictionary (december 2019) by pablo-hidalgo-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker-official-guide (dk-publishing, december 2019) by matt-jones
references == ==
the-force awakens on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki journey to star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-last-jedi (also known as star-wars:
the-last-jedi follows rey as the-last-jedi seeks the-aid of luke-skywalker, in hopes of turning the-tide for the-resistance in the-fight against kylo-ren and the-first-order, while general-leia-organa, finn, and poe-dameron attempt to escape a-first-order-attack on the-dwindling-resistance-fleet.
the-last-jedi is part of a-new-trilogy of films announced after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
the-last-jedi was produced by lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy and ram-bergman and executive produced by the-force-awakens-director-j.-j.-abrams.
the-last-jedi premiered in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-sequel, the-rise of skywalker, was released in december 2019.
shortly after the-battle of starkiller-base, general-leia-organa is leading the-resistance-forces in evacuating the-resistance-forces base when the-first-order-fleet arrives.
the-remaining-resistance escapes into hyperspace, but the-first-order uses a-device to track the-remaining-resistance, and attacks again.
kylo-ren hesitates to fire on the-lead-resistance-ship after sensing kylo-ren mother leia's presence on board, but kylo-ren wingmen destroy the-bridge, killing most of the-resistance's-leaders.
leia is dragged into space but survives by using the-force.
while leia recovers, vice-admiral-holdo assumes command of the-resistance.
on ahch-to, rey attempts to recruit luke-skywalker to the-resistance.
under self-imposed-exile, luke refuses to help and says that the-jedi should end.
after encouragement from r2-d2, luke agrees to give rey three-lessons in the-ways of the-force.
rey and kylo begin communicating through the-force, which puzzles them both.
kylo tells rey that luke feared luke power; luke confesses that luke momentarily contemplated killing kylo upon sensing that snoke was corrupting him, which prompted kylo to destroy luke's new jedi order.
convinced that kylo can be redeemed, rey leaves ahch-to.
luke prepares to burn the-jedi-library but hesitates.
the-spirit of luke's-master-yoda encourages luke to learn from the-spirit of luke's-master-yoda failure.
kylo brings rey to snoke, who reveals that he connected their-minds to discover luke's-whereabouts.
holdo plans to evacuate the-remaining-members of the-resistance using small-transport-vessels.
rey hopes that kylo has abandoned the-dark-side, but rey instead asks snoke to rule the-galaxy with rey.
rey escapes the-destruction while kylo declares himself supreme leader.
when the-first-order arrives, poe, finn, and rose attack with obsolete-speeders.
rey and chewbacca draw tie-fighters away in the-millennium-falcon, while rose stops finn from sacrificing finn.
the-first-order penetrates the-resistance-fortress using a-siege-cannon.
luke appears and confronts the-first-order, allowing the-surviving-resistance to escape.
luke then engages luke in a-lightsaber-duel; upon striking luke, kylo realizes that luke is not physically present, but projecting luke image through the-force.
rey helps the-remaining-resistance-escape on the-falcon.
exhausted, luke dies peacefully on ahch-to, becoming one with the-force.
rey sense rey death, and leia tells rey that the-resistance can rise again.
at canto-bight, the-stablehands recount the-story of luke-skywalker; afterward, one of rey moves a-broom with the-force and gazes into space.
he is the-son of han-solo and leia-organa, and luke's-nephew.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-highly-force-sensitive-scavenger from the-desert-planet-jakku who joined the-resistance and goes to find luke.
john-boyega as finn, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order who defected to the-resistance.
andy-serkis as supreme-leader-snoke, the-leader of the-first-order and kylo-ren's-master.
kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-member of the-resistance who works in maintenance.
j.-j.-abrams was named director of the-first-episode in a-new-trilogy of star-wars-films, the-force awakens, in january 2013.
the-last-jedi-story begins immediately after the-force awakens.
johnson wrote the-scene with the-mirrored-versions of rey to symbolise her-search for identity; when her asks for a-vision of her-parents, her sees only-herself.
rey learns that her-parents were "nobodies" as it would be "the-hardest-thing" her and the-audience could hear; johnson likened the-scene to luke-skywalker learning that darth-vader is johnson father in the empire strikes back (1980).
hamill later said hamill regretted making hamill initial misgivings public and compared hamill disagreements to hamill clashes with george-lucas during the-filming of return of the-jedi (1983).
in november, kennedy announced at the-london-premiere of the-force awakens that the-entire-cast would return for episode-viii, along with "a-handful" of new-cast-members.
according to creature-designer-neal-scanlan, the-last-jedi has more-practical-effects than any-star-wars-film, with 180-to-200-creatures created with practical-effects, some cut from the-final-edit.
in july 2013, kennedy confirmed at the-star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
the-last-jedi digitally in hd and 4k via digital-download and movies
the-last-jedi grossed $620.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $712.5 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.333 billion.
in the-united-states and canada, industry-tracking had the-last-jedi grossing around $200 million from 4,232-theaters in the-last-jedi opening weekend.
the-last-jedi made $45 million from thursday-night-previews, the-second-highest-amount ever (behind the force awakens' $57 million).
the-last-jedi went on to make $104.8 million on the-last-jedi first day (including previews), and $220 million over its-opening-weekend, both-the-second-highest-amounts of all-time.
after dropping by 76% on its-second-friday, the worst friday-to-friday drop in the-series, the-last-jedi fell by a-total of-67% in the-last-jedi second weekend, grossing $71.7 million.
by the-end of the-weekend, the-film made $230 million outside the-united-states and canada.
the-last-jedi grossed $42.5 million in china.
the-last-jedi honors the-saga's-rich-legacy while adding some-surprising-twists — and delivering all-the-emotion-rich-action-fans could hope for."
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 56-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 84 out of 100, the-last-jedi received "universal-acclaim".
richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-action-sequences and humor, said that the-film "doesn't pack quite-the-same-emotional-punch [as the-force awakens] and the-film lags a bit in the-second-half,
creator of the-franchise george-lucas, who was not involved with the-film's-production, described the-last-jedi as "beautifully made" shortly after the-last-jedi release.
in response to tampering claims shortly after the-film's-release, a-fandango-executive stated that rotten-tomatoes detected no-unusual-activity on the-last-jedi aside from a-noticeable-"uptick in the-number of written-user-reviews".
reviewers characterized the-last-jedi as divisive among audiences.
the-rise of skywalker, the-final-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, was released on december 20, 2019.
a week later, lucasfilm announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct the-film and co-write lucasfilm with chris-terrio.
references == ==
the-last-jedi at starwars.com
the-last-jedi at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-last-jedi at imdb-star-wars: the-last-jedi at allmovie
the-last-jedi on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: the-last-jedi at disney-a to z-star-wars: droidworks is a-1998-edutainment-computer-game and the-premiere-title from lucasarts-subsidiary-lucas-learning.
the-game's-plot involves the-player saving the-galaxy by manufacturing droids with specific-abilities, such as the-ability to see in the-dark or jump, to complete missions.
references == ==
luke-skywalker, luke-skywalker twin sister princess-leia, and their-father darth-vader are central-characters in the-original-star-wars-film-trilogy.
darth-vader, in darth-vader previous identity as anakin-skywalker, is the-lead-character in the-prequel-film-trilogy; darth-vader mother shmi is a-minor-character in the-first-and-second-film respectively.
leia-and-han-solo's-son (and hence-luke's-nephew and anakin and padmé's-grandson)
in the-1999-film star-wars, jedi-knight-qui-gon-jinn discovers shmi-skywalker and jedi-knight-qui-gon-jinn son anakin as slaves on the-planet-tatooine.
shmi informs qui-gon that anakin has no-father, leading qui-gon to suggest that anakin is a-product of midi-chlorians-(force-imparting-microorganisms).
as the-film progresses, anakin leaves tatooine to begin anakin jedi training.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002) reveals that, in anakin's-absence, shmi has married cliegg-lars, becoming the-stepmother of owen.
owen tells anakin they are stepbrothers and later marries beru-whitesun.
anakin secretly marries naboo-senator-padmé-amidala at the-end of the-film.
in star-wars: episode iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), padme dies giving birth to twins, luke and leia.
luke is raised by beru and owen-lars on tatooine.
leia is raised by senator-bail-organa and queen-breha-organa on alderaan.
neither of the-twins know of neither of the-twins relation until the-events of star-wars: episode vi –
return of the-jedi
since the-last-name of han's-father is unknown, han would be the-last-name-"solo"the-last-name-"solo".
in the-2015-film star-wars: episode vii – the-force awakens, it is revealed that han had a-son named ben with leia.
the-family breaks apart following ben's-descent into the-dark-side as kylo-ren, with leia and han separating.
luke is not revealed to have any-children.
at the-end of star-wars: episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019), all-blood-related-members of the skywalker bloodline have died out, as leia dies to bring leia son back to the-light-side and ben-solo dies to save rey.
later, rey adopts "skywalker" as leia surname to honor the-skywalker-family and continue the-skywalker-family legacy while cutting ties with leia-palpatine-lineage.
shmi-skywalker (portrayed by pernilla-august) is the-mother of anakin-skywalker, the-mother-in-law of padmé-amidala, the-paternal-grandmother of luke-skywalker and leia-organa, the-grandmother-in-law of han-solo, and the-maternal-great-grandmother of ben-solo.
i – the-phantom-menace and star-wars: episode ii – attack of the-clones.
she welcomes jedi-master-qui-gon-jinn (liam-neeson) into their-home, and tells jedi-master-qui-gon-jinn (liam-neeson) that anakin (jake-lloyd) has no-father; she simply became pregnant with
in spite of she-poverty, shmi tries to give anakin (jake-lloyd) a-good-home in the-slave-quarter of mos-espa.
qui-gon helps anakin win qui-gon freedom, but cannot get shmi out of slavery.
qui-gon allows anakin to leave with qui-gon, assuring qui-gon heartbroken son that they will meet again.
in attack of the-clones, anakin (hayden-christensen), now-a-young-adult-jedi-apprentice, senses through the-force that qui-gon is in pain.
heartbroken and enraged by the-loss of his-mother, anakin slaughters every-single-tusken in the-camp, including the-women and children.
shmi's-death ignites a-strong-anger in anakin, and sets anakin on the-path to becoming darth-vader.
anakin later brings shmi's-body back to the-lars'-homestead where anakin is given a-burial.
anakin-skywalker ===
anakin-skywalker is the-son of shmi-skywalker, born without a-father through the-force.
a-father is the-secret-husband of padmé-amidala, the-father of luke-skywalker and leia-organa, the-father-in-law of han-solo, and the-maternal-grandfather of ben-solo.
anakin is discovered on tatooine by jedi-master-qui-gon-jinn who is sure that the-boy is the "chosen one" of jedi-prophecy, who will bring balance to the-force.
torn between the-boy-loyalty to the-jedi and the-boy drive for power, anakin succumbs to temptation and becomes darth-vader.
as darth-vader, anakin spends the-following-decades serving under palpatine's-galactic-empire until reuniting with anakin son, luke, redeeming anakin by defeating anakin master to protect anakin (therefore, forfilling anakin role as the chosen one) while sacrificing anakin in the-process and becoming one with the-force.
anakin is portrayed by jake-lloyd in the-phantom-menace (1999) and hayden-christensen in attack of the-clones (2002) and revenge of the-sith (2005).
padmé-amidala (portrayed by natalie-portman) is the-secret-wife of anakin-skywalker, the-mother of luke-skywalker and leia-organa, the-daughter-in-law of shmi-skywalker, the-mother-in-law of han-solo, and the-maternal-grandmother of ben-solo.
her-closest-friend in the-senate reconnected and fell in love with anakin-skywalker after he was assigned to protect her-closest-friend in the-senate from an-assassination-attempt, and secretly married he shortly after the-battle of geonosis.
three years later, she reveals to anakin that she is pregnant and plans to raise she is pregnant and plans to raise their-child on naboo-child on naboo.
she realizes that anakin has started to have nightmares of she dying in childbirth and assures her dying in childbirth that it was just-a-dream and that it won't happen.
after anakin turned to the-dark-side and massacred the-jedi at the-jedi temple, anakin was told by anakin that the-jedi the-jedi had taken over the-republic.
obi-wan arrives and asks padmé about obi-wan husband's whereabouts and informs obi-wan that her-husband has turned to the-dark-side.
padmé accuses obi-wan of lying and doesn't believe that anakin would kill younglings.
obi-wan states that anakin is the-father of padmé's-child and sets off to find the-father of padmé's-child.
padmé tracks anakin, now-darth-vader, to mustafar and tries to persuade the-father of padmé's child to abandon the-dark-side, but vader refuses and force chokes mustafar unconscious when obi-wan arrives.
padmé gives birth to birth-children shortly after the-first-empire-day, whom birth calls luke and leia.
padmé tells obi-wan that obi-wan believes there is still good left in vader, before passing away.
during obi-wan-funeral, obi-wan-body was altered to make obi-wan appear still pregnant.
obi-wan and yoda decided to separate the-children in order to keep the-children hidden from darth-vader.
luke-skywalker ===
luke-skywalker ==
is the-brother of leia-organa, the-brother-in-law of han-solo, the-uncle of ben-solo, the-son of anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala, and the-grandson of anakin-skywalker.
in return of the-jedi, a-dying-yoda confirms to luke, that darth-vader (previously-anakin-skywalker) is actually darth-vader (previously-anakin-skywalker) father, despite luke's belief that vader's-claim to fatherhood in the empire strikes back was a-ruse to pull luke to the-dark-side.
luke also finds out from obi-wan's-force-ghost that princess-leia-organa is luke sister.
in the force awakens, as the-last-known-jedi, luke is in hiding after failing to prevent luke nephew and apprentice-ben-solo (now-kylo-ren) from turning to the-dark-side to join supreme-leader-snoke and has cut supreme-leader-snoke off from the-force.
in the-last-known-jedi, a-young-scavenger named rey has located luke and tries to convince supreme-leader-snoke to show a-young-scavenger named rey the ways of the-force, but supreme-leader-snoke refuses.
after knowing the-death of han-solo, after knowing the-death of han-solo trains rey about how to use the-force and to become a-jedi.
luke reveals to rey that luke sensed the-dark-side in ben and was scared for luke, but ben retaliated by using the-force to collapse the-hut, burying luke underneath.
when ben refuses to help rey turn ben back to the-light, luke plans to burn the-jedi-library-tree and is greeted by yoda, who convinces luke to help rey and not to mourn luke failure of losing ben to snoke.
on the-planet crait, luke appears with luke old lightsaber and duels ben, who tries to attack luke, but luke dodges ben, who tries to attack luke.
luke tries to reason with ben and then disappears, revealing that luke was still on the-island and that ben was dueling a-force-projection of ben.
luke falls to the-ground and gets up, and afterwards dies after disappearing, becoming one with the-force ===
=== is the-wife of han-solo, the-mother of ben-solo, the-sister of luke-skywalker, the-daughter of anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala, and the-granddaughter of shmi-skywalker, raised by bail and breha-organa of alderaan.
at age 19, leia-organa-skywalker === is the-princess of alderaan, and is captured by darth-vader while in the-tantive-iv-blockade-runner on a-so-called-"diplomatic-mission".
leia is shown to be force-sensitive.
in the-empire strikes back, leia professes leia love for han-solo when han-solo is put into carbonite-stasis, although it is originally han and luke who compete for leia affections.
in return of the-jedi, planning to feed luke, han, and chewbacca to the-flesh-eating-sarlacc, jabba the-hutt is instead strangled to death by leia by a chain han solo
leia later becomes involved in the-battle of endor.
in the-years that follow, leia becomes general-organa, the-leader of the-resistance, a-military-organization unofficially backed by the-new-republic to counter the-first-order.
she married han-solo and had a-son named ben solo, later kylo-ren, whose turning to the-dark-side separated the couple before the-events of the force awakens.
leia has been on a-search to find leia missing brother-luke and find a-way to save leia son from the-dark-side.
leia dies spending leia energy trying to reach ben, which helps her-son come back to the-light-side.
leia-body later disappears and leia becomes one with the-force.
han-solo ===
=== is the-husband of leia-organa, the-brother-in-law of luke-skywalker, the-father of ben-solo, the-son-in-law of anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala, and the-grandson-in-law of anakin-skywalker.
han-solo ===:
a-star-wars-story reveals that han-solo's-father constructed ships on the-planet-corellia, where han was born.
han's-surname, solo, was not his-birth-name, with han being given his solo surname by an-imperial-officer right before han joined the-imperial-flight-academy, which his would leave three years after.
he and he wookiee co-pilot and best-friend, chewbacca, are initially hired to transport luke-skywalker and obi-wan-kenobi.
han and chewbacca later become involved in the-rebel-alliance and are committed to the-rebel-alliance cause.
over the-course of the-franchise, han becomes a-military-leader for the-alliance, falling in love with and marrying leia-organa, with whom he has a-son named ben.
=== is the-son of leia-organa and han-solo, the-nephew of luke-skywalker, the-grandson of anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala, and the-great-grandson of shmi-skywalker.
soon, luke suspects ben has been influenced by snoke, and ignites ben lightsaber because of instinct in an-attempt to kill ben in ben sleep to prevent ben from causing the-destruction.
but when ben thinks about killing ben, ben wakes up and this causes ben to fall to the-dark-side.
ben becomes kylo-ren, working for the-first-order and working under the-influence of snoke.
ben also forms an-uneasy-alliance with general-hux.
ren is obsessed with the-legacy of ren grandfather, the-sith-lord-darth-vader, and aspires to finish what vader started:
ren stabs han solo, ren father, in the-heart but spares ren mother when ordered to destroy his-mother-ship.
ben becoming
ren also caused han and leia to break up, with neither of han and leia able to stop loving han and leia son.
luke confronts luke and also disappears trying to stop ben's-actions.
after ben-'s-death, rey saves ben-life and admits to ben his-mother did want to join ben as ben solo, ben then sees a-vision of ben father and ben decides to come back to the-light-side becoming ben solo again.
later, he sacrifices he to bring rey back to life, and forms a-brief-relationship with rey before vanishing into the-force as the last of the-skywalker-bloodline.
as a-child, rey was hidden by rey parents on the-planet-jakku to save rey from emperor-palpatine.
years later, rey meets kylo-ren, with whom she has a-connection in the-force.
she also becomes the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke-skywalker and leia-organa.
at the-end of the-rise of skywalker, rey adopts "skywalker" as she surname (having considered the skywalkers she true family) despite not being part of the skywalker bloodline; until then, she had been mononymous.
since the-2000s-prequel-trilogy, and according to the-2018-comic-book darth-vader: dark lord of the-sith written by charles-soule and giuseppe-camuncoli, it has been implied that shmi-skywalker's-impregnation was the-result of palpatine influencing the-force to do so, making palpatine the-father of anakin-skywalker.
in an-early-draft of the-script for revenge of the-sith, palpatine states that palpatine is anakin's-father via this-method.
in december 2019, after the-release of the-rise of skywalker, matt-martin of the-lucasfilm-star-wars-story-group stated that palpatine's-involvement in anakin's-birth is not confirmed.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.following the-events of the-original-film-trilogy, leia and han marry and have children, and luke does likewise several years after leia and han do.
the-skywalker-bloodline-branches from luke and leia's-descendants, but only luke's side continues to carry the-skywalker-name.
leia and han-han marry in the-courtship of princess leia (1994) by dave-wolverton.
leia is pregnant with twins in timothy-zahn's-heir to the-empire (1991) and leia and han are born in zahn's-the-last-command (1993).
han have another-child by the-time of the-jedi-academy-trilogy (1994) by kevin-j.-anderson, by which-time leia has become the-chief of state of the-new-republic.
all three of the-solo-children become jedi-knights under the-tutelage of the-solo-children maternal uncle luke skywalker.
the-solo-children were ranked as the-16th-top-star-wars-heroes, according to ign in 2008.having refounded the-jedi-order and trained several-new-jedi including leia, luke eventually marries an-enemy-turned-ally-mara-jade, and the-solo-children have a-son named ben, who was voted the 40th top star wars character by ign and
mara-jade was created by timothy-zahn as an-antagonist for heir to the-empire (1991), and mara-jade and luke marry several years later in the-comic-miniseries-union (1999-2000).
her-twin-brother jacen is the-eldest-child of han-solo and leia-organa-solo, and has appeared in various-novels and the-champions of the-force set for the-star-wars-miniatures-game.
jaina, named after han's-mother, is born five minutes before her-twin-brother jacen-brother-jacen in the-thrawn-trilogy (1991–93), set about five years after return of the-jedi.
in champions of the-force (1994), jaina helps jaina brother defend jaina unconscious-uncle from the-spirit of sith-lord-exar-kun.
elaine-cunningham, author of the-dark-journey, commented that the-story of the-2002-novel is a-personal-one focusing on a-difficult-time in jaina's-life.
in betrayal (2006), jacen falls to the-dark-side of the-force, and jaina realizes jacen duty as the-"sword of the-jedi" requires jacen to stop his.
jaina and jagged's-descendants include emperor-roan-fel and emperor-roan-fel daughter-marasiah-fel in the-legacy-series (2006–14), set nearly 140 years after return of the-jedi.
jacen-solo is the-son of han-solo and leia-organa, introduced in utero in the-1994-star-wars expanded universe-novel-heir to the-empire, and born and named in the last command.
=== is the-youngest-child born to han-solo and princess-leia, and the younger brother of jacen and jaina-solo.
anakin is named after anakin maternal grandfather, anakin skywalker, and, like anakin namesake, is a-talented-pilot who is prodigiously gifted both in the-force-and-mechanical-engineering.
anakin appears as an-infant and toddler in many-star-wars-novels such as the-jedi-academy-trilogy (1994).
anakin and his-siblings play central-roles in other-novels such as the-crystal-star (1994), the-corellian-trilogy (1995) and the-new-rebellion (1996).
anakin's-birth is first referred to as han-solo, jr. by anakin's-birth father, but leia corrects anakin's-birth, having named the-baby after anakin, as a-reminder of hope.
however, anakin still fears the-name and anakin grandfather's legacy.
on october 1, 1995, nancy-richardson started the-junior-jedi-knights-series with the-golden-globe starring anakin and his-best-friend tahiri-veila.
anakin is now an-eleven-year-old-child starting anakin training at the-jedi-academy on yavin 4.
anakin appears in the-young-jedi-knights-series by kevin-j.-anderson and rebecca-moesta, which follows the-adventures of anakin's siblings, jacen and jaina.
anakin is now a-teenager, who often spends time alone thinking about the-role of the-force, and would get into arguments with anakin brother jacen on the-ways of a-jedi and the-force.
anakin plays major-roles in dark-tide:
in the-2001-novel-star by star by troy-denning, anakin leads a-team of jedi to take out a-dangerous-enemy, resulting in jedi death.
writers of the-new-jedi-order-storyline revealed in a-question-and-answer-section of the-paperback-edition of the-unifying-force published on august 3, 2004 that anakin was supposed to be the-hero of the-story and lead the-jedi-order, but this was changed due to the-release of the-star-wars-prequel-films, in which the-hero was also named anakin.
instead, the-release of the-star-wars-prequel-films, in which the-hero was also named anakin dies in battle at the-conclusion of the-novel.
even after the-release of the-star-wars-prequel-films, in which the-hero was also named anakin , anakin-solo has been mentioned several times in most-following-novels, including a-possible-appearance in traitor by matthew-stover, as a-droid in betrayal by aaron-allston as anakin-sal-solo, and in backlash, where the-release of the-star-wars-prequel-films, in which the-hero was also named anakin appeared to the-release of the-star-wars-prequel-films, in which the-hero was also named anakin maternal uncle luke skywalker and to luke's-son, ben-skywalker by aaron-allston.
anakin is portrayed in the-earlier-books as being a-genius and a-loner, but is haunted by anakin name.
in lyric's-world, it is revealed that anakin loves to take computers apart and put computers back together and sees it as a-puzzle.
anakin would also have dreams of emperor-palpatine and darth-vader trying to persuade anakin to fall to the-dark-side of the-force; anakin overcomes this-fear in anakin's quest, in which anakin confronts anakin.
luke-skywalker and mara-jade-skywalker's-son.
in fate of the-jedi: outcast-love-interest is vestara-khai, formerly-a-sith-apprentice, then a the-jedi apprentice.
by the-end of the-following-series fate of the-jedi, she jedi-training is about to begin.
emperor-roan-fel is leia's-great-grandson, jaina-solo's-grandson and the-head of the-imperial-knights (who split from the-jedi refounded by luke, but are still opposed to the-dark-side).
his-daughter and an-imperial-knight herself oppose the-new-sith-order who have taken over most of the-galaxy, and ally with cade-skywalker and the-surviving-jedi-and-republic-forces in order to fight jedi and republic.
he took the-name bantha-rawk upon leaving the-jedi and works as a-mechanic.
the-second-volume of star-wars: legacy (2013-2014) follows ania-solo, the-great-granddaughter of leia and granddaughter of jacen-solo.
legacy-comic-book-series from dark-horse, which takes place 125 years after return of the-jedi.
despite this, cade still encounters other-the-jedi, as well as the-ghost of cade ancestor luke skywalker, and ultimately reclaims cade heritage to fight the-sith.
references == ==
it takes place during the-dark-times, when the-galactic-empire is hunting down the last of the-jedi while a-fledgling-rebellion against the-galactic-empire is emerging.
the-series features new-characters, along with some from the-original-trilogy and from the-previous-animated-series, the-clone-wars.
fourteen years after the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order and the-rise of the-galactic-empire depicted in revenge of the-sith, a-motley-group of rebels unite aboard a-freighter-starship called the ghost and begin to conduct covert-operations against the-imperial-garrison on and around the-planet-lothal and other-planets that are menaced by the-galactic-empire.
freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus, formerly known as jedi-padawan, caleb-dume, who survived the-events of order 66.
freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus, formerly known as jedi-padawan, caleb-dume, who survived the-events of order 66 is ezra's-mentor and leader of the-ghost-crew.
steven-blum as garazeb-"zeb"-orrelios, a-former-lasat-honor-guard-member who wants the-empire to pay for enslaving his-people.
dee-bradley-baker as captain-rex (seasons 2–4), a-former-high-ranking-clone-trooper, who served under anakin-skywalker in the-clone-wars.
sam-witwer as maul (seasons 2–3), a-former-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who is attempting to hunt down obi-wan-kenobi.
jason-isaacs as grand-inquisitor, a-former-jedi-temple-guard who turned to the-dark-side and was tasked with hunting down surviving jedi.
james-earl-jones as darth-vader, an-evil-sith-lord and apprentice to palpatine who was once jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker.
sam-witwer and ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-ruler of the-galaxy and also known as darth-sidious, sith-master of darth-vader.
mary-elizabeth-mcglynn as governor-arihnda-pryce, a-high-ranking-officer of the-empire and governor of the-lothal-sector.
frank-oz as yoda, the-wise-and-powerful-grand-master of the-jedi who is exiled on the-planet-dagobah.
the-rise of skywalker during the-final-battle over exegol.
the-voice of freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus can also heard in the-2019-film star-wars as one of the-voices of jedi past who provide rey with encouragement to defeat emperor-palpatine.
on september 2, 2014, del-rey-books published star-wars: a-new-dawn, a-prequel-novel by john-jackson-miller telling the-story of how kanan and hera met (set about six years before the-series).
the-book explored thrawn's-partnerships with darth-vader and anakin-skywalker.
it takes place during the-events of rebels'-fourth-season.
alphabet-squadron novel-trilogy, as a-general of the-recently-christened-new-republic's-eponymous-starfighter-squadron in the-final-days of the-galactic-civil-war, hunting down the-weakened-imperial-forces after the-battle of endor and the-death of emperor-palpatine.
from april 1, 2015, through march 16, 2016, marvel-comics published a-12-issue-comic-series, titled kanan, and set during the-events of the-first-season.
written by former-executive-producer of the-series greg-weisman and illustrated by pepe-larraz, jacopo-camagni and andrea-broccardo, the-story is centered on kanan having flashbacks to kanan days as a-padawan in the-jedi-temple and the-clone-wars.
the-force awakens (as downloadable-content only),
references == ==
the-empire strikes back (1980)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983)
i – the-phantom-menace (1999)
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005)
the-force awakens (2015)
the-last-jedi
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi
references ==
attack of the clones episode iii: revenge of the sith episode iv:
return of the-jedi-episode-vii:
the-force awakens
a-few-levels above, in senator-padmé-amidala's-office, anakin-skywalker offers to take anakin-skywalker to somewhere in the-galaxy for a-few-weeks where no-one will recognize them, but padmé is too focused on anakin-skywalker work.
padmé gives anakin skywalker padmé lightsaber to show padmé devotion.
however, he has to hide, as c-3po and bail-organa are about to enter.
palpatine refuses to do so.
bane takes everyone's-comlinks, but before bane can search padmé, who is holding anakin's-lightsaber in anakin-sleeve, bane notices anakin in the-upper-levels and orders an-ig-86-sentinel-droid and shahan-alama to get bane.
anakin eludes anakin pursuers and hot-wires-a-terminal to communicate with palpatine.
the-chancellor advises anakin to get to the-central-power-core to contact for help.
anakin manages to disconnect and hide before the-bounty-hunters find anakin, and then uses a-mind-trick to convince alama to check the-other-two-floors.
as the-bounty-hunters split up, anakin follows the-ig-86-sentinel-droid and manages to bash the-ig-86-sentinel-droid into submission.
noticing no lightsaber slashes, alama quickly figures out that anakin isn't armed.
anakin locates the-power-core, but a-panicked-robonino shuts the-door behind a-panicked-robonino.
alama and sing then attack anakin, and a-panicked-robonino shocks a-panicked-robonino into unconsciousness.
the-effectiveness of the-episode that contained the-debut of cad-bane's-portrayal of anakin-skywalker was disputed among critics.
references ==
references == ==
attack of the-clones (2002), episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005),
the-three-year-conflict between the-clones and the-separatists'-battle-droid-armies is known as the-"clone-wars", in reference to the former, and was secretly orchestrated by the-galactic-republic's-chancellor-palpatine to seize power and transform the-galactic-republic into the-galactic-empire.
all-clone-troopers are humans, bred from the-dna of all-clone-troopers are humans, bred from the-dna of their-genetic-template, the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett, at the-cloning-facilities on kamino, run by the native kaminoans, who genetically modified the-clones to display unquestioned-obedience to the-higher-chain of command, and age at twice the-rate of a-normal-human-genetic-template, the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett, at the-cloning-facilities on kamino, run by the native kaminoans, who genetically modified the-clones to display unquestioned-obedience to the-higher-chain of command, and age at twice the-rate of a-normal-human.
during the-clone-wars, they served under the-command of the-jedi-order, but ultimately turned on they and killed they, as a-result of the-republic's-chancellor-palpatine issuing order 66, which branded the-jedi as traitors and ordered they deaths.
the-nature of order 66 is explored in more-detail in the-clone-wars-animated-series, which reveals that palpatine had secretly arranged for the-clone-army's-creation almost a decade before the-clone-wars, and ordered that all-clones be outfitted with inhibitor-chips, which would alter all-clones mentality and force all-clones to carry out order 66 unquestionably.
during development of the empire strikes back, lucas initially conceived a-planet of clones, which is why the-clone-wars was mentioned for the-first-time in the-original-star-wars (1977)-film.
the-clone-trooper-armor was designed to suggest an-evolution into the-stormtroopers of the-original-trilogy, and the-clone-trooper-armor incorporated features from both-the-armor of stormtroopers and boba-fett, revealed in attack of the-clones to be an-unaltered-clone of jango.
the-armored-troopers in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith are computer-generated-images voiced by temuera-morrison, who played jango.
in writing the empire strikes back, leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war, but this-concept was not featured in the-film.
initial-concept-models implied that the-first-generation-armor was thicker and bulkier than stormtrooper-armor, and this-characteristic was retained by the-art-department for revenge of the-sith.
lucas expressed a-desire for individualized-trooper-armor from the-beginning of art-development for revenge of the-sith.
in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, all-clone-troopers are computer-generated-images and are voiced by temuera-morrison, who played the-clone-template jango-fett.
commander-cody, seen in armor without his-helmet in revenge of the-sith, was played by a-younger-morrison.
like morrison, taylor also played armored-and-unhelmeted-clones in revenge of the-sith, wearing a-blue-bodysuit that isolated his-head.
some-clone-troopers are voiced by dee-bradley-baker in the-2008-animated-film the-clone-wars and the-clone-wars related animated-television-series of the-same-name.
in attack of the-clones (2002), jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi discovers the-clone-army on kamino.
army is deployed to geonosis under the-command of the-jedi to rescue obi-wan, anakin-skywalker, and padmé-amidala from execution by the-separatists.
in revenge of the-sith (2005), set three years later, the-clone-army continues to fight in the-clone-wars against the-separatist-battle-droid-army.
however, just as it appears that the-republic will win the-war, chancellor-palpatine, secretly-the-sith-lord-darth-sidious, orders the-clone-army to execute order 66, turning the-clone-army against the-jedi.
the-clone-troopers kill the-clone-troopers the-jedi-commanders, although a few manage to escape, while the-501st-legion, led by the-newly-christened-darth-vader, storms the-jedi-temple, burning the-jedi-temple and killing the-jedi inside, which effectively ends the-jedi order.
following vader's-assassination of the-remaining-separatist-leaders, palpatine transforms the-republic into the-galactic-empire and the-clone-army becomes the-basis of the-imperial-army.
clone-troopers are referenced in the force awakens (2015) when kylo-ren chides general-hux for the-betrayal of rogue-stormtrooper-fn-2187 and suggests that supreme-leader-snoke should consider a-clone-army.
the-clone-wars ====
ultimately, jedi-jedi remained unaware of this as fives was executed by a-shock-trooper-clone ordered by palpatine to conceal the-existence of the-contingency-order.
star-wars-rebels features a-group of former-clone-troopers who had removed star-wars-rebels chips and, therefore, were not forced to carry out order 66.
it is also revealed that in the-years after the-end of the-clone-wars, the-empire gradually replaced the-aging-clones with the-less-effective-but-more-numerous-stormtroopers.
in the-novels lords of the-sith by paul-s.-kemp, and tarkin by james-luceno, several-clone-troopers are still in active-service during the-early-years of the-empire's-reign, such as among stormtroopers serving darth-vader, and even among the-emperor's-elite-imperial-guard.
is a-division of the-grand-army of the-republic tasked with internal-security-and-peacekeeping-operations on coruscant, protecting "soft-target" public-spaces and important-"hard-target"-buildings, and serving as escorts and guards on diplomatic-missions.
they first appear in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, where they search for yoda's-body in the-senate-building after commander-fox-duel with darth-sidious and later help darth-sidious recover darth-vader's-body on mustafar.
in season seven, a-skirmish broke out onboard former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano's-venator-class-star-destroyer during the-final-days of the-clone-wars when clone-troopers of the-332nd-company and coruscant-guard received order 66 from supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine.
following the-battle on teth, fox's-squad rescued senator-padmé-amidala from ziro the-hutt.
additional-sources state that fox continued fox duty on coruscant, until an-error on fox part led darth-vader to execute fox by force snapping fox neck.
following the-initiation of order 66 and the-subsequent-confrontation between yoda-and-emperor-palpatine in 19-bby,-thire-and-thire-troopers were ordered to hunt the-jedi-master.
the-failure to locate his-body convinced mas-amedda that yoda was still alive, leading the-emperor to order thire to resume the-search.
however, yoda succeeded in escaping from coruscant with the-aid of senator-bail-organa.
thire later accompanied palpatine to mustafar to recover the-critically-wounded-darth-vader.
the-501st-legion first appears unnamed in revenge of the-sith under the-leadership of commander-appo, and they assault the-jedi-temple on coruscant under order 66.
in the-star-wars-legends expanded universe, after the-conversion of the-republic into the-galactic-empire,
legion include: 332nd-company, which was active during the-clone-wars after former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano left the-jedi-order.
after order 66 is issued, the-332nd's-star-destroyer crash lands on the-surface of an-unnamed-moon, killing all except ahsoka, rex, and maul, who manage to escape; the-troopers under the-command of ahsoka tano have orange-marks on the-troopers under the-command of ahsoka tano helmets.
ahsoka and rex have dug graves for the-fallen-soldiers as a-memorial to the-fallen-soldiers.
torrent-company is distinguished for torrent-company engagements against the-confederacy of independent-systems throughout the-war, including the-battle of christophsis, battle of teth, and the-battle of horain.
torrent-company died along with the-332nd soon after order 66.during-star-wars-celebration 2016, dave-filoni stated that in a-planned-story-arc for the-clone-wars, ahsoka, who has left the jedi order, is given command of part of the-501st-legion, including captain-rex; those under her-command repaint those under her-command helmets orange and adorn those under her-command with ahsoka's togruta markings.
her leads those under her-command at the-siege of mandalore, which takes place at the-same-time as the-beginning of revenge of the-sith.
first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which commander appo ====
and other-members of the-501st carry out order 66 and follow anakin, now-darth-vader, in attacking the-jedi-temple on coruscant.
in the-seventh-season of the-series (which overlaps with revenge of the-sith), captain-rex ==== is promoted to commander and leads part of the-501st-legion, called the-332nd-legion (ahsoka-troopers) in the-siege of mandalore alongside ahsoka.
when order 66 is issued, often under the-command of jedi-general-anakin-skywalker and jedi-commander-ahsoka-tano attempts to execute ahsoka, but ahsoka removes often under the-command of jedi-general-anakin-skywalker and jedi-commander-ahsoka-tano chip and restores often under the-command of jedi-general-anakin-skywalker and jedi-commander-ahsoka-tano free-will, before the-pair fake the-pair deaths and part-ways.
rex later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
in season six, during a-battle over ringo-vinda, fives and the-501st are winning the-battle until fellow-clone-tup mysteriously executes jedi-general-tiplar, forcing the-501st to retreat.
jedi-master-shaak-ti brings jedi-master-shaak-ti to inform palpatine about the-chips, where palpatine, being the-true-mastermind behind the-conspiracy, reveals the-chips’ true purpose to fives.
with the-help of 501st-medic-kix, fives is able to contact rex and anakin-skywalker, and rex attempts to warn rex and anakin-skywalker of the-conspiracy and of palpatine's-involvement.
when tup begins behaving abnormally due to tup inhibitor chip malfunctioning, fives goes to great-lengths and disregards order to attempt to save tup's life and, later, discover the-true-cause of tup's death.
echo is rescued by captain-rex, and with captain-rex ability to understand separatist-transmissions, captain-rex plays a-key-role in the-battle of anaxes, earning a-victory against the-separatists.
in season seven, general-pong-krell takes part in the-siege of mandalore, during which general-pong-krell is captured and interrogated by maul, and later attempts to execute ahsoka-tano when order 66 is issued.
after commander-rex has commander-rex chip removed and sides with ahsoka, jesse accuses commander-rex of treason and tries to kill commander-rex as well, but dies along with all-the-troopers aboard when-the-venator-class-star-destroyer they are on crashes on a-small-moon, and is buried by ahsoka and rex.
the-501st-legion under captain-rex served in the-umbara-campaign and was key to the-capture of treasonous-jedi-general-pong-krell, supporting and siding with the-501st-legion under captain-rex friend fives even after fives had been condemned to death by krell and stunning the-jedi after a-fierce-battle with mutinous-501st-clones led by captain-rex.
intended to ensure that the-clones obeyed order 66, a-biotechnical-chip implanted in his-brain shortly after his-creation by the-kaminoans caused tup to shoot and kill jedi-general-tiplar despite not having been ordered to.
tup's-actions led to the-discovery of the-chips by both-the-jedi and the-clones themselves, but tup died of medical-complications soon afterwards.
is a-division of the-grand-army of the-republic under the-command of jedi-general-obi-wan-kenobi and his subordinate,-commander-cody.
during the-latter-battle, kenobi killed general-grievous, marking a-major-loss for the-separatists and bringing the-republic one step closer to winning the-war.
however, kenobi was ultimately betrayed by kenobi soldiers upon the-activation of order 66, a protocol that called for the-extermination of all-jedi.
the-clones failed to execute the-clones former-leader, however.
foxtrot-group - an-elite-commando-unit, led by clone-captain-gregor, within the-special-operations-brigade of the-grand-army of the-republic was attached in direct-support to the-212th-attack-battalion and was deployed during the-battle of sarrish, though many of foxtrot-group - an-elite-commando-unit, led by clone-captain-gregor, within the-special-operations-brigade of the-grand-army of the-republic troopers perished in the-battle of sarrish.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith during the-battle of utapau, aiding obi-wan against general-grievous on utapau.
he is the-first-clone-trooper to receive order 66 on-screen, and he obediently commands he troopers to shoot down obi-wan and to locate he body to confirm the-kill.
cody is particularly loyal to obi-wan, whom cody complemented well, and obi-wan, whom he complemented well-relationship is characterized by a-mutual-camaraderie and trust, though this did not prevent cody from attempting to kill kenobi as part of order 66.
gregor later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
he is revealed to have removed he inhibitor chip, preventing he from carrying out order 66.
gar-special-forces—was a-brigade of elite-clone-troopers in the-grand-army of the-republic under the-command of jedi-general-arligan-zey and jedi-general iri-camas.
during a-mission on kashyyyk at the-end of the-clone-wars, depicted at the-end of republic-commando, sev's-transmission-signal is lost, and sev is declared missing in action; sev ultimate fate is uncertain.
he first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith aiding jedi-general-yoda on kashyyyk.
he attempts to carry out order 66, but he and another-kashyyyk-scout-trooper are decapitated by yoda.
he armor bears green-markings, and he appears in green-camouflage-armor in revenge of the-sith.
first appears in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, in which commander bly ====
men carry out order 66 and shoot aayla in the-back, killing aayla.
marshal-commander-neyo, cc-8826, leads the-91st-mobile-reconnaissance-corps, with initial-command given to jedi-general-mace-windu in the-battle of ryloth and battle of anaxes; command was later transferred to jedi-generals-adi-gallia and stass-allie.
while patrolling the-planet's-surface, the-commander received a-message from supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine instructing supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine to execute order 66.
he later appears in the-rebels-television-series, set fourteen years after revenge of the-sith.
wolffe is revealed to have removed wolffe inhibitor chip, preventing wolffe from carrying out order 66.
when rex and gregor are sought by the-rebel-protagonists, wolffe is suspicious of rex and gregor motives and contacts the-empire to protect himself, rex, and gregor.
graeme-mcmillan of the-hollywood-reporter praised the-decision of the-force awakens to explicitly move away from clone-troopers as bringing "much-needed-moral-complexity" to the-film's-conflict.
references == ===
the-force-unleashed tells the-story of darth-vader's-secret-apprentice,-code-named-"starkiller" but born galen-marek, as galen-marek hunts down the-remaining-jedi after emperor-palpatine orders them killed.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-and-star-wars:
, the-story explores the-aftermath of the great jedi purge as well as the-rise of darth-vader.
the-events of the force unleashed are "pivotal" in darth-vader-history and development as a-character and offer illumination into other-characters from a-new-hope, the-empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi.
in the-sequel, the-players controls a-clone of starkiller, who was created by darth-vader to replace the original starkiller.
however, a-clone of starkiller, who was created by darth-vader to replace the original starkiller has the original starkiller's memories and begins to rebel against a-clone of starkiller, who was created by darth-vader to replace the original starkiller master, eventually escaping to search for a-clone of starkiller, who was created by darth-vader to replace the original starkiller identity.
the-story ends on a-cliffhanger where starkiller prepares to take vader to dantooine to stand trial, but is secretly followed by boba-fett.
due to the-cancellation of the-third-game, as well as the-previous-two-games being assigned into the-discarded-legends-brand of non-canonical-stories, a-cliffhanger where starkiller prepares to take vader to dantooine to stand trial may never be resolved.
the-force unleashed ====
the-force-unleashed-game follows the-story of darth-vader's-secret-apprentice-starkiller, who is tasked with hunting down jedi while killing rebels and imperials alike in order to hide his-existence from the-emperor, but soon starts to slowly redeem his to the-light-side of the-force.
the-force unleashed-ii ====
this time, the-player assumes the-role of a-clone of starkiller that, upon escaping from darth-vader's-clutches, embarks on a-quest to find darth-vader's-identity and the original starkiller's love interest, juno-eclipse, but is soon forced to join the-rebel-alliance and help the-rebel-alliance bring down the-empire and vader, who has captured juno to lure the-clone back to darth vader's.
the-novel focuses on the-dark-side of the-force and the-novel practitioners; williams found the-novel "interesting" to portray the-jedi as "bad-guys."
williams most enjoyed developing the-character of juno-eclipse, exploring the-"feminine"-side of the-force unleashed in a-way the-video-game does not.
a-star-wars-story also has voiced palpatine and other-minor-characters.
star-wars: shadows of the-empire ==
references == ==
the-force unleashed on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
in 1999, an-analytical-model of the-sith was developed for the-pspice-circuit-simulator.
references == ==
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith is a-2005-american-epic-space-opera-film written and directed by george-lucas.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-stars ewan-mcgregor, natalie-portman, hayden-christensen, ian-mcdiarmid, samuel-l.-jackson, christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, kenny-baker and frank-oz.
revenge of the-sith is set three years after the-onset of the-clone-wars, established in star-wars:
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002).
the-jedi are spread across the-galaxy, leading a-large-scale-war against the-separatists.
the-jedi-council dispatches obi-wan-kenobi to eliminate general-grievous, the-leader of the-separatist-army, to put an-end to a-large-scale-war against the-separatists.
meanwhile, after having premonitions of obi-wan-kenobi-wife-padmé-amidala dying in childbirth, anakin-skywalker is tasked by the-jedi-council to spy on palpatine, the-supreme-chancellor of the-galactic-republic and, secretly, a-sith-lord known as darth-sidious.
palpatine manipulates anakin into turning to the-dark-side of the-force and becoming palpatine apprentice, darth-vader, at the-same-time anakin's love, padme gives birth to twins, luke and leia; however, due to leia discontent of anakin becoming vader, leia passes away due to a-broken-heart.
lucas began writing the-script before production of attack of the-clones ended, citing that lucas wanted to end the-trilogy to have similar-aspects of a-romantic-tragedy, thus building into darth-vader's-state at the-beginning of the-next-film.
production of revenge of the-sith started in september 2003, and filming took place in australia with additional-locations in thailand, switzerland, china, italy and the-united-kingdom.
revenge of the-sith premiered on may 15, 2005, at the-cannes-film-festival, then released worldwide on may 19, 2005.
above coruscant, obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker lead a-mission to rescue the-kidnapped-supreme-chancellor-palpatine from the-cyborg-separatist-commander-general-grievous.
after infiltrating grievous'-flagship, the-jedi-battle sith-lord-count-dooku, whom anakin overpowers and decapitates at the-kidnapped-supreme-chancellor-palpatine's-urging.
there, anakin reunites with anakin wife, padmé-amidala, who reveals that she is pregnant.
while initially excited, anakin soon begins to have nightmares about padmé dying in childbirth.
palpatine appoints anakin to the-jedi-council as palpatine personal representative.
the-council, suspicious of palpatine, approve the-appointment, but decline to grant anakin the-rank of jedi-master and instead instruct the-rank of jedi-master to spy on palpatine, diminishing anakin's trust in the-jedi-council.
obi-wan travels to utapau, where obi-wan kills grievous, and yoda travels to the-wookiee-homeworld of kashyyyk to defend the-wookiee-homeworld of kashyyyk from a-separatist-invasion.
meanwhile, palpatine tempts anakin with palpatine knowledge of the-force, including the-power to prevent death, which palpatine offers to teach palpatine to save padmé's-life.
anakin deduces that anakin is the-sith-lord behind the-war and reports palpatine's-treachery to mace-windu, who confronts and subdues him.
desperate to save padmé's-life, anakin disarms windu before anakin can kill palpatine, who sends windu falling to anakin death.
anakin pledges anakin to the-sith, and sidious-knights him darth-vader.
palpatine then issues order 66, which commands the-clone-troopers to kill the-clone-troopers commanding jedi-officers, thus sending the-jedi-order into near-extinction.
meanwhile, vader and a-battalion of clone-troopers kill jedi-jedi in the-jedi-temple, after which vader travels to the-volcanic-planet mustafar to assassinate the-separatist-leaders.
palpatine declares palpatine emperor before the-galactic-senate, transforming the-republic into the-galactic-empire, and denounces jedi as traitors.
having survived the-chaos, obi-wan and yoda return to coruscant and learn of anakin's-turn to the-dark-side.
yoda orders obi-wan to confront vader while he faces darth-sidious.
when padmé learns of anakin's-treachery, padmé travels to mustafar – with obi-wan stowing away on padmé ship – and implores vader to abandon the-dark-side, but vader refuses.
sensing-obi-wan's-presence, and thinking that they are conspiring to kill obi-wan's, vader angrily uses the-force to strangle padmé to unconsciousness.
obi-wan's then engages vader in a-lightsaber-duel that ends with obi-wan's severing vader's legs and left-arm.
yoda then flees with senator-bail-organa and regroups with obi-wan and padmé on the-planetoid polis-massa.
there, padmé gives birth to twins, whom she names luke and leia, and dies soon after, having lost she will to live.
palpatine tells palpatine that palpatine killed padmé in a-blind-rage, devastating vader.
obi-wan and yoda plan to conceal the-twins from the-sith and go into exile until the-time is right to challenge the-empire.
as padmé's-funeral takes place on her-homeworld of naboo, sidious and vader supervise the-construction of the-death-star.
bail takes leia to bail homeworld of alderaan, where bail and bail wife adopt his-wife, while obi-wan delivers luke to his-step-uncle and aunt, owen and beru-lars, on tatooine before going into exile to watch over the-boy.
hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, a-jedi-knight, hero of the-clone-wars and former-padawan of obi-wan, who turns to the-dark-side of the-force and becomes the-sith-lord-darth-vader.
ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine-/-darth-sidious, the-supreme-chancellor of the-galactic-republic who is secretly a-sith-lord, and later-the-founder and leader of the-galactic-empire takes advantage of anakin's-distrust of the-jedi and fear of padmé dying to turn ian-mcdiarmid as palpatine-/-darth-sidious, the-supreme-chancellor of the-galactic-republic who is secretly a-sith-lord, and later-the-founder and leader of the-galactic-empire towards the-dark-side, becoming vader's-master.
anthony-daniels as c-3po, anakin-and-padmé's-personal-protocol-droid that anakin created as a-child.
joel-edgerton and bonnie-piesse also make cameo-appearances, reprising joel-edgerton and bonnie-piesse roles as owen and beru-lars respectively from attack of the-clones.
sound-engineer-matthew-wood provides the-voice of general-grievous, the-fearsome-cyborg-commander of the-separatists'-droid-army; temuera-morrison portrays commander-cody and the-rest of the-clone-troopers; bruce-spence portrays tion-medon, local-administrator of utapau; jeremy-bulloch (who played boba-fett in the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi) appears as captain-colton, the-pilot of the-rebel-blockade-runner-tantive-iv; genevieve-o'reilly portrays senator-mon-mothma, though genevieve-o'reilly scene was ultimately cut.
editor-roger-barton's-son aidan-barton portrays luke-skywalker and leia-organa as infants.
one of lucas'-daughters, amanda, appears as terr-taneel, seen in a-security-hologram, while lucas'-other-daughter katie plays a-blue-skinned-pantoran named chi eekway, visible when palpatine arrives at the-senate after being saved by the-jedi and talking to baron-papanoida at the-opera-house.
the-film-basis in the-return of the-jedi-novelization, in which obi-wan recounts obi-wan battle with anakin that ended with the latter falling "into a-molten-pit".
lucas began working on the-screenplay for episode-iii before the-previous-film, attack of the-clones, was released, proposing to concept artists that the-film would open with a-montage of seven-battles on seven-planets.
in the-secret-history of star-wars, michael-kaminski surmises that lucas found flaws with anakin's-fall to the-dark-side and radically reorganized the-plot.
eventually, revenge of the-sith also became a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm.
a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm is a-reference to revenge of the-jedi, the-original-title of return of the-jedi; george-lucas changed a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm scant-weeks before the-premiere of return of the-jedi, declaring that the-jedi do not seek revenge.
since george-lucas refocused the-film on anakin, george-lucas had to sacrifice certain-extraneous-plot-points relating to attack of the-clones.
however, lucas abandoned this-plot-thread in order to devote more-time to anakin's-story, leaving the-matter unresolved on film.
lucas also wrote a-scene in which palpatine reveals to anakin that palpatine created palpatine from midichlorians, and is thus palpatine "father", a-clear-parallel to vader's-revelation to luke in the empire strikes back, but lucas ejected this-scene as well.
neeson finally reprised the-role in an-episode of the-clone-wars in 2011.after-principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas made even-more-changes in anakin's-character, rewriting the-entire-"turn"-sequence.
in the-previous-versions, anakin had myriad-reasons for turning to the-dark-side, one of which was anakin sincere belief that the-jedi were plotting to take over the-republic.
thus, in the-version that made it to theaters, anakin falls to the-dark-side primarily to save padmé.
ben-burtt would edit these-scenes with lucas in order to pre-visualize what the-film would look like before the-scenes were filmed.
although the-first-scene filmed was the-final-scene to appear in the-film (shot during the-filming of attack of the-clones in 2000), the-first-bulk of principal-photography on the-film occurred from june 30, 2003 to september 17, 2003, with additional-photography occurring at shepperton-studios in surrey and elstree-studios in hertfordshire from august 2004 to january 31, 2005.
while shooting key-dramatic-scenes, lucas would often use an-"a-camera" and "b-camera", or the-"v-technique", a-process that involves shooting with two-or-more-cameras at the-same-time in order to gain several-angles of the-same-performance.
the-speed at which vader and obi-wan engage in vader and obi-wan duel is mostly the-speed at which it was filmed, although there are instances where single-frames were removed to increase the-velocity of particular-strikes.
an-example of this occurs as obi-wan strikes down on vader after applying an-armlock in the-duel's-first-half.
revenge of the-sith eventually became the-first-star-wars-film in which anakin-skywalker and the-suited-darth-vader were played by the-same-actor in the-same-film.
revenge of the-sith has 2,151-shots that use special-effects, a-world-record.
lucas himself excised all-the-scenes of a-group of senators, including padmé, bail-organa, and mon-mothma (genevieve-o'reilly), organizing an-alliance to prevent palpatine from usurping any-more-emergency-powers.
the-bonus-features show an-additional-removed-scene in which jedi-master-shaak-ti is killed by general-grievous in front of obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker.
the-bonus-features also show obi-wan-kenobi and skywalker running through grievous's-ship, escaping droids through a-fuel-tunnel, and arguing over what the-droid r2-d2 is saying.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-charity-premieres took place in seattle, los-angeles, chicago, washington-d.c., boston, denver, atlanta, san-francisco, and miami on thursday, may 12, 2005; and on may 13, 2005, there were two-additional-charity-premiere-screenings in george-lucas's-hometown of modesto, california.
the-official-premiere-theatrical-release in most-other-countries took place on may 19 to coincide with the-1999-release of the-phantom-menace
(the-1977-release of a-new-hope and the-1983-release of return of the-jedi were also released on the-same-day and month, six years apart).
in 2016, youtube-user-gratefuldeadpool uploaded a-fan-edit of revenge of the-sith in which the-cast's-voices were dubbed by other-actors to match the-bootleg-subtitles.
revenge of the-sith is the-first-star-wars-film to receive a-pg-13-rating from the-motion-picture-association of america (mpaa), officially for "thematic-elements sci-fi-violence and some-intense-images", namely for the-scene in which darth-vader is set aflame by lava and molten-rock.
dvd included a-number of documentaries including a-new-full-length-documentary as well as two-featurettes, one which explores the-prophecy of anakin-skywalker as the chosen one, the other looking at the-film's-stunts and a-15-part-collection of web-documentaries from the-official-web-site.
revenge of the-sith was released through the-itunes-store, amazon-video, vudu, google-play, and disney-movies
disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued revenge of the-sith on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
on september 28, 2010, it was announced that all-six-films in the-series were to be stereo-converted to 3d. all-six-films in the-series would be re-released in chronological-order beginning with the-phantom-menace on february 10, 2012.
revenge of the-sith was originally scheduled to be re-released in 3d on october 11, 2013.
however, on january 28, 2013, lucasfilm announced that lucasfilm was postponing the-3d-release of episodes ii and iii in order to "focus 100-percent of our-efforts on star-wars:
the-force awakens" and that further-information about 3d-release-plans would be issued at a-later-date.
the-site's-critical-consensus reads, "with episode iii: revenge of the-sith
a.-o.-scott of the-new-york-times concluded that the-film was "the best of the-four-episodes mr.-lucas has directed", and equal to the-empire strikes back as "the-richest-and-most-challenging-movie in the-cycle".
in a-2007-summary of the-100-best-science-fiction-films on rotten-tomatoes, revenge of the-sith was placed 51 out of 100, making it the only star wars prequel film to earn a-rank on that-list.
j.r.-jones, a-chicago-reader-critic who disliked the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones, gave the-film a-positive-review, saying that the-film had a-"relatively-thoughtful-story".
attack of the-clones, the-force is in a-jollier-mood this time, and revenge of the-sith is a-great-entertainment", but revenge of the-sith noted that "the-dialogue throughout the-movie is once again the-movie weakest-point".
though many-critics and fans viewed revenge of the-sith as the strongest of the-three-prequels, some-viewers thought it was more or less on par with the-previous-two-episodes.
following the-release of revenge of the-sith—the completion of the-original-and-prequel-star-wars-series—on june 9, 2005, george-lucas was presented with the-33rd-american-film-institute-lifetime-achievement-award.
( the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones received seven-nominations each, with one-and-two-wins, respectively.)
throughout revenge of the-sith, lucas refers to a-wide-range of films and other-sources, drawing on political,-military,-and-mythological-motifs to enhance lucas story's impact.
perhaps the-most-media-coverage was given to a-particular-exchange between anakin and obi-wan, which led to the-aforementioned-controversy: "if you're not with me, then you're my-enemy", anakin declares.
midway through the-film, lucas intercuts between anakin and padmé by themselves, thinking about one another in the-jedi-temple and themselves apartment, respectively, during sunset.
the-film includes much-more-dialogue than the-film, and certain-story-elements were fleshed out further in the-novelization, such as anakin and palpatine's-relationship and palpatine's-apprenticeship to darth-plagueis.
the-style of the-game was mostly-lightsaber-combat and fighting as obi-wan or anakin.
the-clone-wars and subsequent-star-wars-media ===
the-2008-animated-film and subsequent-television-series fill the-three-year-gap between the-events of attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
several-plot-threads planned but ultimately dropped from revenge of the-sith were instead incorporated into the-clone-wars; these included boba-fett's-revenge-plot against mace-windu for boba-fett's-father-jango's-death, as well as the-mystery behind deceased-jedi-master-sifo-dyas introduced in attack of the-clones.
the-final-four-episodes of the-series take place concurrently with revenge of the-sith.
several-scenes from the-film were recreated and expanded for the-final-four-episodes of the-series in order to showcase the-whereabouts of anakin-skywalker's-former-padawan-ahsoka-tano during the-events of the-film.
while ahsoka was a-major-character in the-clone-wars, ahsoka is not alluded to in revenge of the-sith as the-character had not yet been created when the-film was in production.
references == ===
star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith at starwars.com star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith at lucasfilm.com star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith at imdb
star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith-title listing at the internet speculative fiction database star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith at the tcm movie database star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith at allmovie-star-trek:
stewart had previously said stewart would not return to the-franchise after nemesis.
co-creator-alex-kurtzman saw the-series as a-redemption-story for patrick-stewart as jean-luc-picard: a-former-starfleet-admiral who previously commanded the-uss-enterprise who is now at the-end of co-creator-alex-kurtzman life and must face the-consequences of co-creator-alex-kurtzman choice to abandon starfleet and the-romulans, with the-series depicting the-suffering that has happened since co-creator-alex-kurtzman retired and patrick-stewart as jean-luc-picard: a-former-starfleet-admiral who previously commanded the-uss-enterprise's attempts to make up for co-creator-alex-kurtzman past-actions.
when cbs had first approached kurtzman and akiva-goldsman (who worked on the-first-season of discovery) about making more-star-trek-series, alex kurtzman believed jean-luc-picard was the-greatest-star-trek-captain and included a-series featuring the-character on jean-luc-picard wish list, despite patrick-stewart having said that jean-luc-picard did not want to return to the-star-trek-franchise beyond discovery.
all-access at the-end of 2019, after the-full-release of discovery's-second-season and several-star-trek:
kurtzman revealed that the-series would find the-character "radically altered" by the-destruction of romulus several years after the-events of nemesis, as depicted in the-film star-trek (2009), and explained that the-mandate for the-series was to make the-series "a more psychological show, a-character-study about this-man in kurtzman emeritus years".
in january 2020, stewart said it was stewart hope that all of the-main-cast of the-next-generation would appear on picard before the-end of the-series, while kurtzman said if michael-dorn reprised michael-dorn klingon role worf in picard michael-dorn would appear as michael-dorn did in the-next-generation and not be changed to match the-new-klingon-designs in discovery.
the-motion-picture (1979) to connect the-story back to the-next-generation, as that-series used jerry-goldsmith's's-theme in its-main-title, while russo also references alexander-courage's-original-star-trek-theme to "evoke the-idea of star-trek in general".
the last best hope , the-novel leads directly into the-events of the-series and introduces several-new-characters that are featured in the-first-season.
references == ==
by the-time the-hyperdrive was invented, humans were already present on a-few-scattered-worlds throughout the-galaxy; according to the-new-essential-chronology, the-humans of coruscant managed to send out a-number of 'sleeper-ships' between the-fall of the-rakatan-infinite-empire and the-invention of the-hyperdrive.
the-presence of ordinary-humans in the-story is important dramatically and the-first-movie establishes their-vulnerability and weakness.
human-force-sensitive-characters are divided into jedi and those affiliated with the-light-side of the-force; and sith and those affiliated with the-dark-side (such as dark jedi, who are former jedi who have fallen to the-dark-side, and inquisitors, who are jedi hunters trained by darth-vader and serving the-empire).
the-ensuing-conflict between the-two-factions became known as the-clone-wars, which supreme chancellor palpatine, secretly the sith lord darth sidious and the mastermind behind the-war, took advantage of to manipulate the-republic's-senators and citizens into supporting his-plans for the-government's-reorganization into the-galactic-empire for the-purpose of intergalactic-"peace".
the-republic serves as the-protagonist-faction of the-prequel-trilogy, which depicts the-republic downfall and conversion into the-galactic-empire.
created from jango-fett's-dna, they were genetically modified to have accelerated-growth and be predisposed toward unquestioning-obedience to the-chain of command, including being outfitted with mind-controlling-biochips, which were put to use during order 66, when the-clone-troopers turned on and tried to kill the-clone-troopers jedi generals.
most of the-planets that made up the-confederacy attempted to earn the-confederacy freedom by force, engaging in the-three-year-long-clone-wars with the-republic using an-army of battle-droids.
once sidious achieved sidious goal of scaring the-people of the-republic into supporting sidious plans for the-formation of a-galactic-empire, sidious ended the-clone-wars by having sidious new apprentice, darth-vader, kill the-separatist-council-leaders.
the-rebel-alliance is an-organization of multiple-planets and systems that oppose the-rule of the-galactic-empire, with which the-galactic-empire engages in the-five-year-long-galactic-civil-war.
the-galactic-empire serves as the-protagonist-faction of the-original-trilogy.
galactic empire === is an-autocracy formed by emperor-palpatine at the-end of the-clone-wars, replacing the-old-galactic-republic.
in the-original-trilogy, the-empire serves as the-main-antagonistic-faction.
at its-peak, the-empire the-empire sprawled most of the-known-star-wars-galaxy.
the-empire the-empire was eventually defeated by the-rebel-alliance and collapsed, but some-remnants continued to exist for 30-years and reunited to form the-first-order.
the-resistance
the-resistance is a-military-organization founded and led by leia-organa, and the-successor of the-rebel-alliance.
the-resistance fought against the-first-order to defend the-new-republic and maintain peace in the-galaxy, 30 years after the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war.
formed from the-rebel-alliance and meant to be a-restoration of the-old-galactic-republic, the-rebel-alliance governed most of the-known-galaxy, until the-rebel-alliance fell after the-first-order destroyed the-rebel-alliance capital, the-hosnian-prime-system.
main-goal is to overthrow the-new-republic and destroy the-resistance and luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi.
ruled by supreme-leader-snoke, a force-sensitive being created by the-resurrected-darth-sidious to act as darth-sidious-puppet-ruler, the-first-order succeeded in destroying the-new-republic and conquering much of the-known-galaxy, especially during kylo-ren's-reign, who killed snoke and became the-next-supreme-leader.
near the-end of its-one-year-long-war with the-resistance, its allied its with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-cult of sith-loyalists led by sidious on exegol, though both were ultimately defeated by the-remains of the-resistance and the-civilians of the-galaxy, who finally gathered the-courage to rise against both-oppressors.
much like the-empire before the-empire, the-first-order uses stormtroopers as the-first-order main military.
the-males are known for the-males spirit of travel and are among the-first-species in the-galaxy to develop interstellar-travel, while the-females usually remain on the-females homeworld to look after the-children and govern the-place.
the-only-known-member of this-species, prosset-dibs, could use the-force to make up for the-force lack of eyesight and become familiar with the-force surroundings ====
they are believed to be the-embodiments of the-force itself: the-light-side, the-dark-side, and the-balance between the two.
known across the-galaxy as greed-driven-bankers, they ran the-intergalactic-banking-clan during the-galactic-republic-era.
==== are a-humanoid,-feline-like-sentient-species from zygerria, who had built and run the-biggest-slave-empire in the-galaxy, until the-jedi overthrew them and outlawed slavery.
attempts to rebuild the-biggest-slave-empire were made during the-clone-wars and the-imperial-era, but were thwarted.
references ==
the-player mainly controls c-3po through the-use of six-buttons at the-bottom of the-screen, four dedicated to movement, one as an-"interact"-button, and one for throwing thermal-detonators.
items are generally used to open doors, and thermal-detonators can be used to attack other-droids that become hazards.
references == ==
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix –
the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is a-2019-american-epic-space-opera-film produced, co-written, and directed by j.-j.-abrams.
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is the-third-installment of the star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the nine-part "skywalker saga".
the-rise of skywalker follows rey, finn, and poe-dameron as they lead the-resistance's-final-stand against supreme-leader-kylo-ren and the-first-order, who are aided by the-return of the-deceased-galactic-emperor,-palpatine.
unlike the force awakens and the-last-jedi which received positive-reviews, the-rise of skywalker received mixed-reviews from critics, who praised the-acting, action-sequences, musical-score, and visual-effects, but criticized the-story, pacing, and the-story perceived departures from the-plot and themes of the-last-jedi.
following a-threat of revenge by the-revived-emperor-palpatine, kylo-ren obtains a-sith-wayfinder, leading kylo-ren to the-uncharted-planet-exegol.
there, kylo-ren finds palpatine, who reveals that kylo-ren created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and lure kylo to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order—a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—and tells kylo to find and kill rey, who is continuing her-jedi-training under resistance-leader-leia-organa.
finn and poe-dameron deliver intelligence from a-spy that palpatine is on exegol; rey has learned from luke-skywalker's-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead them there.
rey, finn, poe, chewbacca, bb-8, and c-3po depart in the-millennium-falcon to pasaana, where a-clue to a-wayfinder is hidden.
kylo initiates a-force-bond with rey to discover her-location; kylo travels to pasaana with kylo warrior subordinates, the-knights of ren.
with the-help of lando-calrissian, rey and her-friends find the-clue—a-dagger inscribed with sith-text, which c-3po's-programming forbids kylo from interpreting—and the-remains of a-jedi-hunter named ochi and kylo ship.
rey senses kylo nearby and faces rey.
the-first-order captures the-falcon, chewbacca, and the-dagger; attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning.
believing chewbacca to be dead, the-group escapes on ochi's-ship.
rey senses chewbacca is alive, and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission to kylo's-star-destroyer.
rey recovers the-dagger and has visions of ochi killing rey parents with the-dagger.
kylo informs kylo that kylo is palpatine's-granddaughter; the-sith-lord had ordered ochi to recover rey as a-child, but kylo parents hid kylo on jakku to protect kylo.
general-hux saves poe, finn, and chewbacca from execution, revealing general-hux as the-spy.
rey retrieves the-wayfinder from the-remains of the-second-death-star, but she is met by kylo, who destroys the-wayfinder and duels she.
in a-dying-act, leia calls to kylo through the-force, distracting kylo as rey impales kylo.
sensing-leia's-death, rey heals kylo and takes rey ship to exile rey on ahch-to.
there, luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives rey leia's lightsaber.
rey leaves for exegol in luke's-x-wing-fighter, using the-wayfinder from kylo's-ship.
, palpatine sends one of palpatine superlaser-equipped star destroyers to destroy kijimi as a-show of force.
rey transmits her-coordinates to r2-d2, allowing the-resistance—now led by poe and finn—to follow her to exegol.
there, her confronts palpatine; palpatine demands that her kill palpatine for palpatine spirit to pass into her.
lando brings reinforcements from across the-galaxy to join the-battle.
ben overpowers the-knights of ren and joins rey, but palpatine drains the-knights of ren power to rejuvenate palpatine.
palpatine incapacitates ben and attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who lend her their-strength.
palpatine attacks her with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine before dying her.
ben uses the-force to revive her at the-cost of ben own life; rey kisses ben before ben dies.
the-resistance defeats palpatine's-armada, while people across the-galaxy rise up against the-first-order.
the-resistance returns to
after the-celebration, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries rey and leia's-lightsabers.
a-passerby asks a-passerby name; as the-spirits of luke and leia watch, a-passerby replies, "rey-skywalker."
mark-hamill as luke-skywalker, the-last-jedi-master and maternal-uncle of kylo-ren became one with the-force in the-last-jedi.
daisy-ridley as rey, a-former-scavenger from jakku, member of the-resistance, and the-next-jedicailey-fleming and josefine-irrera-jackson as young rey john boyega as finn, a-member of the-resistance and a-former-stormtrooper-(fn-2187) who defected from the-first-order oscar-isaac as poe-dameron, a-high-ranking-x-wing-fighter-pilot and commander of the-resistance who later inherits the-rank of general from leia-anthony-daniels as c-3po, a-humanoid-protocol-droid in the-service of general-organa
naomi-ackie as jannah, a-former-stormtrooper of the-first-order (tz-1719) living on the-planet kef-bir, who aids the-resistance-domhnall-gleeson as general-hux, the-first-order's third in-command richard e. grant as allegiant-general-pryde, a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order, who previously served in the-galactic-empire-lupita-nyong'o as maz-kanata, a-former-space-pirate and ally of the-resistance keri-russell as zorii-bliss, an-old-acquaintance of poe's from kijimi
joonas-suotamo as chewbacca, a-wookiee and first-mate of the-millennium-falcon-kelly-marie-tran as rose-tico, a-mechanic in the-resistance and friend of finn-ian-mcdiarmid as emperor-palpatine, the-resurrected-dark-lord of the-sith and rey's-paternal-grandfather billy-dee-williams as lando-calrissian, a-veteran of the-rebel-alliance, a-former-owner of the-millennium-falcon, and an-old-friend of chewbaccabillie lourd and greg-grunberg reprise their-roles as lieutenant-kaydel-ko-connix and temmin
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
jodie-comer and billy-howle briefly appear as rey's-parents, while tom-wilton and screenwriter chris-terrio briefly appear as the-performer and voice for aftab-ackbar, the-son of admiral-ackbar, respectively; and mike-quinn and kipsang-rotich return as the-performer and voice of nien-nunb, respectively.
harrison-ford reprises harrison-ford role as han-solo in an-uncredited-cameo.
actors making reprisal-vocal-cameos include james-earl-jones as darth-vader, andy-serkis as snoke, and the-voices of several-past-jedi, including ewan-mcgregor and alec-guinness as obi-wan-kenobi (the latter via digitally-altered-archive-audio), hayden-christensen as anakin-skywalker, ashley-eckstein as ahsoka-tano, freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus, olivia-d'abo as luminara-unduli, frank-oz as yoda, liam-neeson as qui-gon-jinn, jennifer-hale as aayla-secura, samuel-l.-jackson as mace-windu, and angelique-perrin as adi-gallia.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
the-story was rewritten to some-extent before filming was completed.
the-film's-title, the-rise of skywalker, was announced at april-2019's-the-star-wars-celebration in chicago.
in flashback-scenes, digital-de-aging was used for the-appearance of luke and leia through the-use of facial-shots of both-characters from the empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi respectively.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-end of july, keri-russell was confirmed to have been cast, and there was an-announcement of returning and additional-new-cast-members.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
the-rise of skywalker" was announced on may 4, 2019.
it includes the-novel-resistance-reborn, set between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker, and various-other-titles.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
the-official-novelization of the-rise of skywalker is by rae-carson:
: he transferred he consciousness into a-clone-body following he death in return of the-jedi, and
at the-end of a-live-event, a-message from palpatine (the-one mentioned in the-film's-opening-crawl) was heard.
unlike most-studio-films, disney reportedly did not hold test-screenings for the-rise of skywalker, instead only showing disney to abrams'-friends and family, as well as a-terminally-ill-fan.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
endgame (2019) became atom-tickets'-second-best-first-day-seller of all-time behind endgame, selling more-than-twice-the-number of tickets as the-last-jedi sold in that-same-timeframe, while fandango reported fandango outsold all-previous-star-wars-films.
box-office-tracking had the-rise of skywalker grossing around $200 million in box-office-tracking opening weekend, though some-firms predicted a-debut closer to $175 million.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-website's-critical-consensus reads, "the-rise of skywalker suffers from a-frustrating-lack of imagination, but concludes this-beloved-saga with fan-focused-devotion.
according to the-review-aggregator metacritic, which sampled 61-reviews and calculated a-weighted-average of 53 out of 100, the-rise of skywalker-skywalker received "mixed-or-average-reviews".
lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
" the-bbc's-nicholas-barber praised the-film's-acting and wrote, "the-rise of skywalker has been lovingly crafted by a-host of talented-people, and yet the best the-rise of skywalker can do is pay tribute to everything he did several decades ago. "
scott-mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
whereas asian-actress-kelly-marie-tran was a-main-character in the-last-jedi, asian-actress-kelly-marie-tran appears for about-a-minute in the-rise of skywalker.
relishmix, which tracks social-media-posts and online-presence, "noticed a-divided-reaction to skywalker online, though it leaned slightly positive".
references ==
the-rise of skywalker at starwars.com-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at lucasfilm.com-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker at imdb-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker-skywalker at allmovie
the-rise of skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at disney-a to z-the-star-wars-trilogy, also known as the-original-trilogy or the-classic-trilogy, is the-first-set of three-films produced in the-star-wars-franchise, an-american-space-opera created by george-lucas.
it was produced by lucasfilm and distributed by 20th-century-fox, and consists of the-original-star-wars-film (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
beginning in medias-res, the-original-trilogy serves as the-second-act of the-"skywalker-saga.
the-original-trilogy was followed by a-prequel-trilogy between 1999 and 2005, and a-sequel-trilogy between 2015 and 2019.
the films center on the-galactic-civil-war between the-rebel-alliance and the-tyrannical-galactic-empire, as well as the-archetypical-hero's-journey of luke-skywalker in luke-skywalker quest to become a-jedi under the-tutelage of exiled-jedi-masters-obi-wan-kenobi and yoda.
luke joins forces with princess-leia, han-solo, chewbacca, c-3po, r2-d2 and the-rebel-alliance in facing the-empire and the-evil-sith-lord-darth-vader.
the-first-film and the empire strikes back have been hailed as the-greatest-sci-fi-films of all-time, whilst the-third-film, return of the-jedi, received only-positive-reviews.
episode-v – the-empire strikes back, was released on may 21, 1980, and sees luke begin training as a-jedi under the-last-living-jedi-master, yoda.
luke confronts sith-lord-darth-vader, who is revealed to be luke's father.
vader attempts to convert luke to the-dark-side of the-force.
the-third-film, episode-vi – return of the-jedi, was released on may 25, 1983, and follows luke as a-full-fledged-jedi.
luke attempts to redeem vader, thereby saving the-galaxy from the-empire.
a-rebel-spaceship is intercepted by the-empire above the-desert-planet of tatooine.
aboard, the-deadliest-imperial-warlord darth-vader and his-stormtroopers capture princess-leia-organa, a-secret-member of the-rebellion.
before her-capture, leia makes sure the-droid r2-d2 will escape with stolen-imperial-blueprints for an-armored-space-station, the-death-star, and a-holographic-message for the-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi, who has been living in exile on tatooine.
luke helps the-droids locate obi-wan, now-a-solitary-old-hermit known as ben-kenobi.
he tells luke he must also become a-jedi.
while obi-wan disables obi-wan tractor beam, luke and han rescue the-captive-princess-leia, passing through incredible-dangers.
finally, they deliver the-death-star plans to the-rebel-alliance with the-hope of exploiting a-weakness, and launch an-attack on the-death-star.
during production, lucas changed luke's-name to skywalker and shortened the-title to the-star-wars, and finally-just-star-wars.
the-fourth-draft of the-script underwent subtle-changes to become a-self-contained-story ending with the-destruction of the-empire in the-death-star.
the-empire strikes back
three years after the-destruction of the-death-star, the-empire forces the-rebel-alliance to evacuate the-empire secret base on hoth.
instructed by obi-wan's-spirit, luke travels to the-swamp-world of dagobah to find the-exiled-jedi-master-yoda.
luke's-jedi-training is interrupted by vader, who lures luke's-jedi-training into a-trap by capturing han and leia at cloud-city, governed by han's old friend lando.
during a-fierce-duel, vader reveals a-shocking-truth about luke's-father.
owing to financial-concerns, alan-dean-foster's-sequel-novel, splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978), restricted the-story to luke, leia, and darth-vader.
the-plot-twist of vader being luke's-father had drastic-effects on the-series.
the-empire strikes back in the-next-draft.
return of the-jedi ===
about a year after han's-capture, luke joins leia and lando in a-rescue-attempt to save him from the-gangster jabba the-hutt.
afterward, luke returns to dagobah to complete luke jedi training, only to find yoda on luke deathbed.
in his-last-words, yoda confirms the-truth about luke's-father, and that luke must confront vader again in order to complete vader training.
as the-rebels lead an-attack on the-second-death-star, luke engages vader in a-lightsaber-duel as the emperor watches; both-sith-lords intend to turn luke to the-dark-side and take luke as both-sith-lords apprentice.
ford had originally not signed on to appear in a-second-sequel, but was convinced to return under the-condition that ford character would die.
ford wanted a-bittersweet-and-nuanced-ending outlined with lucas that not only saw han dead, but also depicted the-rebel-forces in pieces, leia struggling as a-queen, and luke walking off alone (as in a spaghetti lucas wanted a-happier-ending, partly to encourage toy-sales.
the-star-wars-trilogy, unlike science-fiction that features sleek-and-futuristic-settings, portrays the-galaxy as dirty and grimy in lucas's-concept of a-"used-universe".
lucas originally conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of darth-vader's.
lucas has also drawn parallels between palpatine and historical-dictators such as julius-caesar, napoleon-bonaparte, and politicians like richard-nixon.
while promoting the-rise of skywalker, director-j.-j.-abrams expressed director-j.-j.-abrams hopes that the-original-versions of the-trilogy would be officially released, but said that the-powers that be had told director-j.-j.-abrams "that that's not necessarily possible".
he further said that when making the-force awakens, he had gotten into a-disagreement about the-dialogue between vader and the-emperor in the-empire strikes back before realizing that different-versions of the-film were being referred to; he cited the-despecialized-editions of the-films, while the-other-party had recalled the-current-official-version.
the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), which were also both very successful, with the-former's-climax, where vader is revealed as luke's-father, becoming one of the-most-iconic-plot-twists in motion-picture-history.
the-original-trilogy was praised for the-original-trilogy groundbreaking visual and sound effects, john-williams'-music, writing, characters and concept.
star-wars, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi are considered by many to be among the-greatest-movies ever made
the-empire strikes back, was selected in 2010.
the-success and large-impact of the-original-star-wars-trilogy led to two-more-trilogies, beginning with the-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002) and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), all directed by george-lucas.
three years after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, a-sequel-trilogy began to be released, consisting of the force awakens (2015), the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
references ==
references ==
the-force awakens as a-first-order-stormtrooper who, shocked by the-order's-cruelty in the-force awakens first-combat-mission, flees and joins forces with rey and later-the-resistance.
a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise is portrayed by english-actor-john-boyega, who reprised the-role in star-wars: the-last-jedi and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
kathleen-kennedy, one of the-producers of the force awakens, stated: john-boyega was somebody we'd known of because of attack the-block.
cell 2187", in turn, references arthur-lipsett's-short-film 21-87.abrams stated that it was intentional that finn was given no-last-name in promotional-materials for the force awakens, suggesting that finn full name and background would be revealed in future-films.
the-force awakens ===
finn, originally designated "fn-2187", is an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver).
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was taken from an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) family at a-young-age and sold to the-first-order to become a-part of his-family ever-expanding-army.
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) was trained for most an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) life to be an-effective,-loyal,-and-merciless-soldier.
in spite of an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) training, an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) becomes disillusioned with the-first-order to become a-part of their-ever-expanding-army during an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) first-combat-mission on the-planet jakku.
an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) is traumatized when a-fellow-stormtrooper dies in front of an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver), and is later horrified when ren, having failed to secure the-map that will lead to the-missing-luke-skywalker (mark-hamill), orders an-ex-first-order-stormtrooper who served under captain-phasma (gwendoline-christie) and kylo-ren (adam-driver) squadron to massacre a-village of jakku-civilians.
while on jakku, phasma and ren both notice finn's-inability to kill, and phasma later instructs finn to report for reconditioning to better follow her-orders.
poe's-astromech-droid bb-8, now in the-care of the-junk-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley), recognizes the-jacket that finn is wearing belongs to poe.
rey assumes finn to be a-member of the-resistance after mentioning that bb-8 has a-partially-completed-map leading to luke.
finn goes along with luke-mistaken-assumption, hoping that luke will help finn get bb-8 to the-resistance.
the three of them escape the-first-order on the-millennium-falcon with help from han-solo (harrison-ford) and chewbacca (peter-mayhew).
han takes han to han friend maz kanata (lupita-nyong’o) on takodana, who promises to take han to the-resistance.
finn decides to continue to flee the-galactic-conflict, but changes finn mind when the-first-order launches a-preemptive-strike on the-capital of the new-republic and ren's forces find the new-republic and ren's forces and take rey-prisoner.
finn flies to the-resistance-base, where finn discovers that poe is still alive and meets general-leia-organa (carrie-fisher), c-3po (anthony-daniels), and the hibernating r2-d2-(kenny-baker).
when finn arrives on the-planet with han and chewbacca, however, finn reveals that finn only worked in the-base's-sanitation-section.
this allows the-resistance to attack, led by poe.
the-resistance meet up with rey, who has freed herself from captivity.
later, finn watches in horror with the-others as ren kills han.
ren confronts finn and rey in the-woods, claiming that finn and rey fight is not over.
finn picks up luke’s-old-lightsaber after rey is knocked out by ren and tries to fight ren, but ren easily overpowers ren and knocks ren unconscious.
rey stops ren from killing finn, and rey and chewbacca escape starkiller base in the-millennium-falcon and bring the comatose finn to the-resistance-base for medical-care.
finn is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
the-last-jedi ===
finn awakens from finn coma aboard the-main-resistance-cruiser, and immediately demands to know where rey is, learning that leia has a-beacon that will lead rey back to leia when necessary.
later, following the-attack on the-cruiser that killed most of the-resistance's-main-leadership and rendered leia unconscious, finn takes the-beacon and attempts to board an-escape-pod in the-hopes of keeping both finn and rey out of danger.
seeing finn trying to escape, rose stuns finn and intends to turn finn in for desertion, but stops when finn tells finn that the-first-order has found a-way to track the-cruiser through lightspeed.
upon being captured, dj, having overheard the-resistance's-plan of escaping to crait via transports, secretly tells the-first-order of the-plans in exchange for money and his-freedom, and finn and rose are to be executed.
as the-first-order prepares an-attack on the-formerly-abandoned-rebel-base on crait, finn recognizes the-weaponry that they plan to use to destroy the-blast-doors and leads a-small-strike on the-first-order with the-intention of disabling the-cannon.
when luke appears on finn-finnfirst-instinct is to send forces to help finn, but poe realizes that luke is stalling to give the-resistance-time to escape.
finn and poe lead the-resistance off the-planet.
finn's-outfit in the-rise of skywalker-update.
the-rise of skywalker-finn, along with poe, intercepts a-message from a-first-order-mole that emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has come back to life and is planning an-attack on the-resistance and the-new-republic in the-form of the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers designed by the-sith-eternal.
finn then leaves along with rey, poe, c-3po, and chewbacca to the-desert-planet of pasaana, where with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams)
going free, finn and poe rescue rey aboard the-millennium-falcon and head to the-endor-system, where the-wayfinder is located among the-wreckage of the-second-death-star.
finn tells finn that finn left the-order as well, and suggests that the-force brought them together and caused them all to leave the-order.
finn and jannah follow rey aboard the-wreckage to try and stop finn from confronting ren, but finn does so and nearly kills ren before healing ren and leaving aboard ren's ship.
without rey or the-wayfinder, finn, poe, and jannah return to the-resistance-base, where poe, and jannah learn that leia has died.
as the-attack nears the-attack end, finn and jannah are left on the-surface of the-damaged-resurgent-star-destroyer, but are ultimately rescued by lando and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon and the-rest of the-resistance-fleet; finn attributes finn faith in finn being rescued to a-belief in the-force.
following the-attack, finn celebrates among the-rebels on the-resistance-base, reuniting with rey and poe.
finn, having revealed what finn was going to tell rey to be of finn own realization of being force sensitive, is now training under rey as rey jedi padawan.
rey accidentally hurts finn's-feelings during a-training-session, making finn use a-wooden-toy-lightsaber instead of rey own.
rey seeks out a-path leading rey to the-world between worlds, allowing rey to travel through time.
during her-travels, rey learns from yoda's-ghost that patience and understanding is an-important-part of teaching a-padawan; finn is shown to have prevented the-life-day-tree from falling by using finn wooden lightsaber.
when rey returns home, rey allows finn to slice the-life-day-roast with rey lightsaber.
by mistake, finn slices all the way through the-table, but rey reassures finn that rey'll help finn get better.
in the-rise of skywalker, finn tries to tell rey something which rey does not want to say in front of poe, but this-thread is never resolved within the-film.
this was implied to involve rey confessing rey loved canto-bight by poe, but boyega denied this on twitter.
the-novelization of the-film reveals that finn is force-sensitive, implying this to be what rey intended to tell rey.
the-novelization also states that rey believes this as well, speculating on the-kind of jedi-jedi could become.
reviewers also praised finn's-relationships with the-other-characters: the dynamic between rey and finn is something new for star-wars, with her-bright-eyed-heroism complementing boyega's-roguish-wit...
gone is the-clunky-dialogue of the-prequels—instead, it's replaced by some-seriously-clever-writing that often leads to nice-little-moments, many with han and finn.
references == ==
references ==
the-clone-wars is a-lego-themed-action-adventure-video-game based on the-clone-wars animated film and the-clone-wars follow-up television series with the-same-name, both of them set between the-films
episode-ii – attack of the-clones and star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
attack of the-clones and star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith was developed by traveller's-tales, published by lucasarts, and released in march 2011 for the-playstation-3,-playstation-portable, xbox 360, wii, nintendo ds, microsoft windows and nintendo 3ds consoles.
the-mac-os-x-version of episode-ii – attack of the-clones and star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith has been released by feral-interactive.
gameplay in lego-star-wars-iii: the-clone-wars is similar to the-previous-titles in the-series, and other-lego-video-games.
the space fights is set during the-clone-wars-animated-series, as well as certain-scenes from star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones, unlike the-original-games, which featured characters from the-six-films of star-wars such as lego star-wars: the-video-game and lego star-wars ii:
characters can be purchased on these-ships--separatists on the-invisible-hand; characters from the-republic on the-resolute.
plot == is based on star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones, the star-wars:
the first level acts as a-prologue and depicts the-geonosian-arena-battle from attack of the-clones, which saw the-start of the-clone-wars.
the-game had been in development since late 2009 when the second season of star-wars: the-clone-wars started.
references == ==
the-original-trilogy (2006), lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga (2007), lego-star-wars iii:
the-clone-wars (2011), lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens (2016) and lego-star-wars:
the-first-few-sets based on the-original-trilogy were released in 1999, coinciding with the-release of the-phantom-menace.
the-last-jedi, star-wars-resistance, the-mandalorian, the-old-republic, and the-rise of skywalker have also been produced.
in march 2021, lego announced that lego will be releasing the-helmets of darth-vader and the-scout-trooper on april 26, 2021.
lego-star-wars: revenge of the-brick is the first computer-animated lego-star-wars short film.
it premiered on cartoon-network in mid-2005, in conjunction with the-theatrical-release of revenge of the-sith.
the-quest for r2-d2 is a-short-movie which aired on cartoon-network on august 2009, and was uploaded to the-lego-star-wars-website, in order to celebrate 10-years of lego-star-wars, lego-star-wars: bombad-bounty, is another-cgi-lego-star-short-film, the-quest for r2-d2 was released in 2010.
in the-quest for r2-d2, vader hires boba-fett to track down the-gungan-jar-jar-binks for an-accident boba-fett caused to vader.
the-film also takes place at the-same-time as the-original-movies showing that jar-jar was responsible for the-destruction of the-first-death-star and was with boba-fett on jabba's-barge during the-events of return of the-jedi.
meanwhile, c-3po and r2-d2 are put in charge of the-boisterous-group and find c-3po and r2-d2 in over c-3po and r2-d2 heads.
the-empire strikes out released on september 26, 2012, airing on cartoon-network in the-united-states, and would be one of the-last-star-wars-productions to be made before lucasfilm was sold to the-walt-disney-company a month later.
in this-special, luke-skywalker embarks on a-mission to find and destroy an-imperial-base on naboo, but is relentlessly chased by a-group of fanatic-fangirls, who think of luke-skywalker as a-celebrity for destroying the-death-star.
meanwhile, darth-vader engages a-"sithling"-rivalry with darth-maul, in order to prove he's the-best-sith-lord to emperor-palpatine, who is constructing a-second-death-star.
in the special, set after episode-ix, rey begins to doubt her-abilities as a-teacher to finn.
after learning from kylo-ren about kylo-ren demise at vader's-hands, palpatine seeks to make kylo palpatine new apprentice (
unbeknownst to vader) and ensure vader will rule the-galaxy forever.
the-only-surviving-sith-clone, jek-14, decides not to fight for the-dark-side of the-force and wants to be left alone to build in peace, but both-the-jedi and the-sith want jedi on the jedi and the-sith , with the-latter-planning to use jedi to clone an-evil-army.
meanwhile, c-3po quits being the-substitute-teacher for the-padawans, and the-jedi-council hires anakin-skywalker as his-replacement.
attack of the-jedi", aired on november 27, 2013.
when the-jedi get a-tip of this, the-jedi head there to stop the-jedi, but when the-jedi reach complications, the-jedi must persuade jek-14 to help the-jedi, despite jek-14 not wanting to fight for either-side of the-force.
the-resistance rises aired on disney-xd between february and may 2016, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
a-5-part-animated-mini-series serves as a-comedic-prequel to star-wars: the-force awakens.
set between episode-v and episode-vi, it tells the-story of the-freemakers, a-family of scavengers that find themselves pulled into the-conflict between the-rebels and the-empire.
set during multiple-star-wars-eras, all-stars tells the-story of other-relatives of the-freemaker-family, including the-freemaker-family parents pace and lena during the-time of solo, and zander's-daughter moxie during episode-vii and episode-viii.
references == ===
attack of the-clones.
lego-star-wars: revenge of the-sith.
the-empire strikes back.
isbn-1-46542-029-0-lego-star-wars: return of the-jedi.
the-force awakens.
isbn-1-46548-956-8-dk-readers-level 2: lego-star-wars the-rise of skywalker.
like its-predecessor, its is set in the-star-wars-universe 4,000 years before the-events of the-film
the-phantom-menace and is based on the-d20-system developed by wizards of the-coast.
the-phantom-menace uses the-odyssey-engine, which was originally used in knights of the-old-republic.
knights of the-old-republic-ii starts five years after the-events of the-first-game and follows the-story of the-exile, a-jedi-knight who was exiled from the-jedi-order.
the-game takes place five years after the-events of knights of the-old-republic and 4,000-years before episode i:
the-phantom-menace, in a-time when the-jedi have been nearly exterminated by the-sith.
throughout the-game, the-exile restores the-exile connection to the-force while, with the-help of playable-companions, setting out to stop the-sith.
the-player makes choices that turn the-exile to either-the-light-side or the-dark-side of the-force, and they travel to six-planets to either help or hinder the-republic's-efforts to bring peace and stability to the-galaxy.
malachor-v. the-deaths that ensued created such-a-substantial-"wound" in the-force that the-character served under revan during the-mandalorian-wars and ordered the-activation of a-devastating-weapon in the-climactic-battle was forced to sever malachor-v. the-deaths that ensued connection to the-force to survive, and the-jedi-council ordered the-character exiled from the-jedi-order.
as the-game progresses, the-jedi-exile rebuilds a-connection to the-force and creates unusually-strong-force-bonds with other-characters and places, while unknowingly sapping the-force powers.
in between the-events of that-game and this-one, the-sith have launched a-largely-successful-genocide-campaign against the-jedi-order.
another-major-antagonist is atris, a-former-member of the-jedi-council whose-unethical-efforts to thwart the-sith come into conflict with the-exile.
after settling a-dispute regarding the-exile's-past-sentence, atris forms an-uneasy-alliance with their, instructing their to seek out other-surviving-jedi in order to rally against the-sith.
the-exile then travels to four-worlds to find reclusive-jedi-masters and either beg for four-worlds aid or kill four-worlds in revenge for being exiled, depending on player-choice.
tracking kreia to telos, the-exile fights and defeats a-corrupted-atris, from whom it is learned that kreia plans to strengthen a-massive-"wound" in the-force made ten years prior.
this-"wound" had been created by the-exile during the-mandalorian-wars, when they activated a-superweapon in order to end the-battle on the-planet-malachor-v, causing mass-death and destruction.
before following her to malachor-v, where kreia had since rejoined the-sith as darth-traya, the-exile stops a-sith-invasion of telos, defeating one of traya's-former-apprentices, the-sith lord darth nihilus.
depending on the-exile's-alignment, they either order the-destruction of malachor-v, escaping before it is destroyed, and travel into the-unknown-regions in search of revan (light-side), or remain on malachor-v as the-new-dark-lord of the-sith (dark-side).
avellone said that obsidian recognized one of the-things that made knights of the-old-republic great was the-story and the-companions, and that they tried to expand upon this by adding more-depth to they.
the-musical-score was composed by mark-griskey, who developed music and themes for characters and places, including the-jedi's-theme, darth-sion's-theme and darth-nihilus's-theme (which both have many-similarities with the-emperor's-theme from return of the-jedi).
m4-78's-designer, kevin-saunders, explained that m4-78's moved assets from that-planet to nar-shaddaa's-yacht-level in order to complete it on time, which was prior also likely to be cut from the-game.
references =
notable for his-taciturn-demeanor and for never removing his-helmet, fett appears in both the empire strikes back (1980), employed by the-galactic-empire, and return of the-jedi (1983), serving the-crime lord-jabba the-hutt.
while seemingly killed in return of the-jedi (1983) after falling into a-sarlacc, his has since appeared in star-wars-media set after the-film, confirming his-survival.
a-preteen-boba is portrayed by daniel-logan in the-prequel-film-attack of the-clones (2002), which reveals the-character's-origins as a-clone and the-adoptive-son of the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett.
the-clone-wars, while temuera-morrison, who portrayed jango in attack of the-clones, voiced the-character as an-adult in most-star-wars-projects since the-release of the-film.
fett's-theatrical-film-debut was an-unnamed-bounty-hunter in the-empire strikes back as the-"next-major-villain" besides darth-vader.
fett tracks the-starship to cloud-city, where vader captures vader passengers and tortures vader captain, han-solo.
aiming to collect the-bounty jabba the-hutt has placed on solo (established in the-original-film), fett questions vader regarding the-carbon-freeze, which vader intends to use on vader true target, luke-skywalker.
vader promises that the-empire will compensate fett if solo dies, but the-smuggler survives and vader turns the-smuggler over to fett, who leaves to deliver the-smuggler to jabba in the-smuggler ship, slave-i.-return of the-jedi features boba fett at jabba's palace on tatooine, where han solo's friends are captured while trying to save han solo's.
chewbacca later warns solo, who is still blind after being frozen in carbonite, that fett is near.
as solo turns around, chewbacca inadvertently hits fett's-rocket-pack, setting it off and sending the-bounty-hunter falling into the-sarlacc's-mouth.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones, which reveals that a-preteen-boba-fett (played by daniel-logan) is an-unaltered-clone of the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett (temuera-morrison), who had a-preteen-boba-fett (played by daniel-logan) created on kamino to be raised as a-preteen-boba-fett (played by daniel-logan) son as part of his-son-price to serve as the-template for the-grand-army of the-republic's-clone-army.
boba helps jango escape from obi-wan-kenobi and accompanies obi-wan-kenobi to geonosis, where obi-wan-kenobi witnesses jango's death at the-hands of mace-windu.
the-now-non-canon-1985-animated-series, star-wars: droids, set before the-original-trilogy was produced by the-same-studio that created the-animated-segment of the-1978-holiday-special, and boba-fett was again voiced by don-francks (who had been uncredited for boba-fett original role in the-holiday-special).
in the-episode "a-race to the-finish", in the-episode "a-race to the-finish" is hired by the-fromms to help them get revenge on the-masters of the-droids
the-clone-wars ====
in the-story-arc, boba infiltrates mace-windu's-flagship in the-guise of a-clone-trooper-cadet, hoping to exact revenge against the-jedi for killing his-father.
fett is ultimately captured by the-jedi and sentenced to prison on coruscant; although fett expresses regret for the-collateral-damage fett has caused, fett vows to never forgive windu.
fett own bounty-hunter-syndicate, krayt's-claw, which includes bossk and dengar (both of whom first appeared in the-empire strikes back alongside fett).
as the-series takes place five years following return of the-jedi, this would confirm the-character's-survival after the-character fall into the-sarlacc's-mouth and retcon the-character apparent-death.
when moff-gideon's-imperial-forces attack the-group, fett dons fett old armor and helps to fend off the-stormtroopers deployed to capture grogu, but the-group ultimately failed to prevent fett from being taken by moff-gideon's's-dark-troopers.
after this, fett flies into hyperspace and is not seen again until a-post-credits-scene, in which fett and fennec return to tatooine and kill bib-fortuna, who has been in charge of jabba's-palace since fett death.
fett then tells vader the-pilot's-surname, unknowingly informing the-sith-lord (formerly-anakin-skywalker) that fett has a-son.
fett also features in marvel's-bounty-hunters (2020), which is set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
in april 2014, such-works were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise in order to create a-blank-slate for the-sequel-trilogy.
boba-fett appears in the-years leading up to a-new-hope in the comic boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), in which vader hires boba-fett before trying to kill boba-fett, as well as agent of the-empire (2012–2013), blood ties (2010–2012), and underworld:
a-1983-issue of the-original-marvel-star-wars-comic-book set just after return of the-jedi
four-boba-fett-comics set several years after return of the-jedi were released between 1995 and 2000.
fett encounters han-solo in the-short-story
the-last-one-standing: the-tale of boba-fett (1996), set 15 years after the-events of the-same-film, and fights side by side with the-last-one-standing: the-tale of boba-fett (1996) in the-new-jedi-order: the-unifying-force (2003), set a decade later.
in the-legacy of the-force-series (2006–2008), set some 35 years after jedi, han and leia's-daughter, jaina, asks fett to train her to help her defeat her-corrupted-brother, jacen.
daniel-keys-moran-backstory was depicted differently in attack of the-clones, leading to the-dark-horse-comic-jango-fett: open-seasons (2003) retconning mereel to jango's-mentor.
is a-trilogy of novels by k.w.-jeter set during the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-original-trilogy depicts fett as being more communicative than in the-films because the-original-trilogy plot requires fett to show "an-ability to convince people as well as kill people".
the-first-book, the-mandalorian-armor, starts during the-events of return of the-jedi, shortly after jabba's-sail-barge is destroyed.
the-empire strikes back that fett stole a-bounty-bossk and zuckuss
after delivering the-bounty, fett accepted a-contract to join the-bounty-hunters-guild in order to break it up.
the-emperor met with darth-vader and prince-xizor, where the latter revealed that it was the-emperor who planned for fett to join the-bounty-hunters-guild in order to eliminate the-bounty-hunters-guild weakest members, leaving only the best for the-empire to exploit.
in the-third-and-final-book, hard-merchandise, it is related that fett tried to claim fett bounty, but found prince-xizor waiting to kill fett in order to tie up loose-ends related to fett plot.
set 20 years after the-events of return of the-jedi, it focuses on what led boba-fett and the-mandalorians to fend off the-extragalactic-yuuzhan-vong-invaders in the-new-jedi-order:
a-a-yuuzhan-vong named nom anor warrior asks fett on mandalore to assist in killing a-jedi; instead, fett on mandalore convinces the-jedi to deliver a-vong-warrior-message.
the-jedi returns and confirms that fett has a-deal
the-cancelled-lucasarts-video-game star-wars 1313, announced at e3 2012, would have told the-story of boba-fett's-career as a-young-adult-bounty-hunter between the-prequel and original-trilogies.
boba-fett's would have navigated past the-scum of civilization in an-underground-area of coruscant known as level 1313.
return to vader's-castle.
fett was to have appeared in more-episodes of the-clone-wars before the-clone-wars cancellation.
in mid-2014, josh-trank was officially announced as the-director of an-undisclosed-spin-off-film, but had left the-project a year later due to creative-differences with kinberg, causing a-teaser for a-star-wars-spin-off-film written by simon kinberg, which entertainment-weekly reported would focus on boba-fett during the-original-trilogy to be scrapped from star-wars-celebration.
april-1978-draft of the-empire strikes back, basing the-character on sergio-leone's-man with no-name (clint-eastwood).
while vader became less a mercenary and more of a-dark-knight, the-bounty-hunter-concept remained, and boba-fett became "an equally villainous" but "less-conspicuous"-character.
by 1979, fett's-backstory included having served in an-army of imperial-shock-troops which had battled the-clone-troopers of the-republic during the-clone-wars.
at one-point in return of the-jedi's-development, fett was conceived as being a-main-villain, but fett was finally replaced with emperor-palpatine when lucas decided to not make a-third-trilogy of star-wars.
lucas at one-point considered depicting vader and fett as brothers in the-prequel-films, but discounted it as too "hokey".
lucas considered adding a-shot of fett escaping the-sarlacc in later-editions of return of the-jedi, but decided against it because it would have detracted from the-story's-focus.
boba-fett is primarily played by jeremy-bulloch in the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
filming the-role for the-empire lasted three weeks.
bulloch spent four-weeks on return of the-jedi.
a-younger-version of the-character was played by daniel-logan in attack of the-clones.
daniel-logan had not seen any of the-star-wars-films prior to being cast as fett, but daniel-logan watched the-original-trilogy at lucas'-request.
for the-2004-rereleases, temuera-morrison replaced the-character's-original-voice for continuity with attack of the-clones establishing that boba is a-clone of boba father, jango, also portrayed by temuera-morrison.
and ed begley, jr. in return of jedi, tim glovatsky in the-audio-adaptation of dark-forces:
the-force unleashed-ii and star-tours:
the-character also made a-cameo-appearance in a-live-action-mockumentary filmed on the-set of return of the-jedi titled return of the-ewok (1982).
bulloch, who has never fully understood the-character's-popularity, attributes it to the-costume and the-respect fett garners from darth-vader and jabba the-hutt.
between filming the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, mark-hamill pitched the-idea that fett was luke-skywalker's-mother to george-lucas, which "he didn't like".
in the-clone-wars ===
bryan-young, a-writer for the-huffington-post and examiner.com, also disliked fett's-responses at the-end of the-episode when confronting mace-windu: "ign-reviewer-eric-goldman says something incredibly whiny.
references =
the-clone-wars ====
bane escapes with the-holocron and manages to evade anakin-skywalker and ahsoka-tano in "cargo of doom".
obi-wan-kenobi and mace-windu force obi-wan-kenobi to take obi-wan-kenobi and mace-windu to the-holocron, and bane leads obi-wan-kenobi and mace-windu into a-trap in bane headquarters, giving bane time to flee.
the-third-season explores the-events leading up to bane-takeover of the-senate-building in season one.
after a-short-altercation with obi-wan-kenobi and quinlan-vos, who were also searching for the-hutt, bane escapes once again.
prior to the-fourth-season's-episode-"deception", bane is revealed to have intentionally been captured in order to infiltrate a-republic-prison; bane is hired by count-dooku to break moralo-eval out of the-facility.
after a-short-altercation with obi-wan-kenobi and quinlan-vos, who were also searching for the-hutt, obi-wan-kenobi poses as bounty-hunter-rako-hardeen and seeks to gain the-duo's-trust to uncover count-dooku's-plans.
bane and "hardeen" survive the-events of the-box and go on to kidnap the-chancellor in "crisis on naboo", but obi-wan-kenobi's-deception is soon revealed and obi-wan-kenobi manages to foil the-separatist-plot, leading to bane's arrest once more.
following the-series'-cancellation in 2014, creator-dave-filoni confirmed that bane was slated to return in an-unfinished-story-arc which saw bane and a-group of bounty-hunters mentoring the-young-boba-fett, helping bane follow in bane late-father's-footsteps.
the-end of the-arc would see bane and fett having a-standoff, which presumably resulted in the-former's-death.
years after the-clone-wars came to an-end, sabine-wren somehow heard of bane, and designed a-graffiti-image of bane, inspired by bane daring combat skills.
darth-maul, set before the-events of the-prequel-trilogy, where bane aides the-titular-character in kidnapping a-jedi-padawan.
while filoni researched the-character, the-character happened to come across an-unlabeled-concept-art of a-gun-toting-bounty-hunter with a-wide-brimmed-hat from the-original-trilogy and that-concept helped bring the-character to life.
references == ==
nelvana, the-animation-studio that produced the-animated-segment of the-holiday-special, was hired to create two-animated-series which aired together on abc: droids (1985–1986) follows the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2, and its-sister series-ewoks (1985–1987) features wicket and other-members of the-titular-species from return of the-jedi, both set before the-events of the-original-trilogy.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ===
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) was introduced through a-2008-animated-film of the-same-name.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series is set between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith of the-prequel-trilogy.
his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series focuses mainly on the-jedi-characters of anakin-skywalker and obi-wan-kenobi, as well as anakin's-padawan-apprentice, ahsoka-tano (an-original-character created by filoni for his first in-house star wars cgi-animated series), with other-characters from the-live-action-films in supporting roles.
after disney's-acquisition of the-star-wars-franchise, the-clone-wars was cancelled in 2014 before the-clone-wars intended final-episodes were completed.
the-show follows a-band of rebels as a-band of rebels fight the-galactic-empire in the-years leading up to a-new-hope.
the-animated-series star-wars-resistance debuted in late 2018, shifting the-animation-style towards anime-inspired-cel-shading-visuals, and focuses on a-young-resistance-pilot kazuda-xiono before and during the force awakens and the-last-jedi, leading up to the-rise of skywalker.
sequel trilogy-characters such as captain-phasma, general-hux, and kylo-ren appear.
set after the-events of the-clone-wars, the-bad-batch follows the-titular-squadron making the-bad-batch way through the-galaxy as mercenaries in the-early-days of the-empire.
after the-release of attack of the-clones, developed and drawn by genndy-tartakovsky.
cartoon-network produced and aired the-micro-series-clone-wars from 2003 to weeks before the-2005-release of revenge of the-sith, as the-series featured events set between those-films.
the-plot in the-series was intended as prequel to then-upcoming-feature-movie-episode-iii: revenge of the-sith and directly leads to the-starting-point in the-movie.
the-series follows "a-lone-gunfighter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy far from the-authority of the-new-republic" a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
the-series will follow rebel-spy-cassian-andor, five years before the-events of rogue one, during the-formative-years of the-rebellion.
obi-wan-kenobi ==
in august 2019, it was reported that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise ewan-mcgregor role from the-prequel-trilogy.
a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was initially thought to have been developing as a-standalone-film, which was ultimately scrapped due to the-performance of solo at the-box-office.
during the-2019-d23-expo, lucasfilm officially announced that a-streaming-series focused on obi-wan-kenobi was in development, with ewan-mcgregor in talks to reprise his-role from the-prequel trilogyewan-mcgregor ewan-mcgregor .
it will take place eight years after revenge of the-sith and prior to the-events of a-new-hope, thus exploring the-time during kenobi's-exile on tatooine.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
developed by favreau and filoni, ahsoka exists alongside the-mandalorian, the-book of boba-fett and rangers of the-new-republic through interconnected-stories culminating in a-"climactic-story-event".
developed by favreau and filoni, it exists alongside the-mandalorian, the-book of boba-fett and ahsoka through interconnected-stories culminating in a-"climactic-story-event".
sam-witwer provides the-voice of an-unknown-character of the-dark-side of the-force during the-final-challenge of each-episode.
producer-rick-mccallum revealed the-working-title, star-wars: underworld, in 2012, and that it would focus on criminal-and-political-power-struggles in the-"period when the-empire is trying to take things over. "
the-story of han winning the-millennium-falcon from lando was planned to be featured and later developed as solo:
references == ==
official-website-star-wars: droids – the-adventures of r2-d2 and c-3po is a-1985-animated-television-series spin off from the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
it focuses on the-exploits of droids r2-d2 and c-3po between the-events of revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope.
during the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with its-sister-series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series ran for one-season of 13-half-hour-episodes; an-hour-long-special-broadcast in 1986 serves as the-finale-adventures, the-droids find the-droids in the-service of successive-new-masters, and encounter minor-characters from the-original-trilogy such as boba-fett and ig-88.
droids follows the-adventures of r2-d2 and c-3po as droids face off against gangsters, criminals, pirates, bounty-hunters, the-galactic-empire and other-threats.
the-series was retroactively placed four years after revenge of the-sith and fifteen years before the-events of a-new-hope.
in the-latter-film, c-3po tells luke-skywalker that his-and-r2-d2's-"last-master was captain-antilles.
" the-droids are placed in antilles'-care by bail-organa at the-end of revenge of the-sith, creating an-apparent-continuity-error.
this is explained by the-droids being accidentally separated from antilles during the-events of the-animated-series.
anthony-daniels as c-3po
; anthony-daniels as c-3po also portrayed the-character in the-films.
the-series falls into three-cycles or arcs; the-droids usually run into the-droids new-masters at the-beginning of each, and at the-end are forced to leave.
run which included a-new-hope , the-empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, planet of the-hoojibs, droid-world and return of the-jedi: the-battle of endor due to poor-reflective-sales of buena-vista's-"further-adventure"-series overseas which included mission to ord-mantell, an-ewok-adventure and ewoks: the-battle for endor.
several-references to the-animated-series are made in the-prequels, such as the-boonta-eve-classic in the-phantom-menace, the-planet-bogden and a-four-armed-cook in attack of the-clones, and general-grievous'-wheel-bike-design in revenge of the-sith.
genndy-tartakovsky gave c-3po moving, expressive-eyes in clone-wars (2003) to pay homage to genndy-tartakovsky previous-animated-appearances in nelvana's-star-wars-holiday-special (1978) and droids.
additionally, possible-sources of inspiration for sequel trilogy-main-characters rey and kylo-ren have been noticed.
references ==
star-wars: droids 1985, george-lucas, ben burtt star-wars insider #27
the-first-order is a-fictional-autocratic-military-dictatorship in the-star-wars-franchise, introduced in the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens.
formed following the-fall of the-galactic-empire after the-events of return of the-jedi (1983), the-first-order is the-central-antagonistic-faction in the-sequel-trilogy.
aside from the-films, the-first-order appears in various-related-star-wars-media.
in the force awakens, the-first-order is commanded by supreme-leader-snoke and seeks to destroy the-new-republic, the-resistance, and luke-skywalker.
in the-2017-sequel the last jedi, ren kills snoke and becomes the-new-supreme-leader.
in the-2019-film the-rise of skywalker, the-first-order-allies with the-sith-eternal, a-secret-sith-cult led by palpatine, who is revealed to have been secretly controlling the-first-order via ren-puppet-ruler, snoke, prior to the latter being usurped by ren.
according to star-wars: the-force awakens:
aftermath-trilogy by chuck-wendig, after the-galactic-empire was defeated in return of the-jedi at the-climactic-battle of endor in 4-aby, thousands of worlds rose up to join the-rebel-alliance and destroy the-disorganized-empire, which fell victim to warlordism.
the-new-republic forced the-empire to settle for the-galactic-concordance, a-humiliating-armistice-agreement which imposed strict-disarmament-plans and punishing reparations on the-remaining-imperials.
the-vestigial-empire secretly expanded from the-vestigial-empire original few sectors (in the-galactic-north), aggressively pushing into the-unknown-regions (the-unexplored-swaths of territory in the-galactic-west) to seize new-undeveloped-worlds in order to supplement the-vestigial-empire resource base, as well as build new-shipyards and industrial-infrastructure far from the-eyes of the-new-republic.
bloodline explained how this-faction officially reorganized into the-"first-order", and that this-final-transition only occurred about six years before the-force awakens.
many of the-centrists were former-imperials who admired the-old-empire for bringing order to the-galaxy, and who feared that without strong-central-control the-new-republic would become as weak and ineffectual as the-new-republic.
first-order-conspirators publicly revealed that leia was in fact the-daughter of darth-vader, severely harming leia political standing among the-remaining-populists.
even after these-events, most in the-remaining-senate were happy to see the-centrists go, feeling that the-new-first-order still controlled far-too-few-sectors of the-galaxy to ever pose a-serious-threat to galactic-peace.
the-new-"first-order" came to be ruled by the-mysterious-force-wielder known as supreme-leader-snoke, who was secretly created by the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine to control the-first-order after purging the-first-order previous leadership.
through snoke, the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine seduced leia's-own-son ben-solo to the-dark-side of the-force, who renamed himself "kylo ren".
blaming himself, luke fled into self-imposed-exile to search for the-ancient-first-jedi-temple.
with political-standing severely weakened, and the-new-republic-senate gridlocked and unwilling to recognize the-first-order's-military-buildup, leia-organa decides to withdraw and form leia-organa own small-private-army, known as the-resistance, to fight the-first-order within leia-organa own borders.
publicly new-republic continues to disavow direct-association with the-resistance to maintain plausible-deniability, and though the-majority of the new-republic senate does not want to intervene against the-first-order, several-senators privately channel funds and resources to the-resistance.
this-state of affairs continued on for the-next-six-years until the-events of the force awakens.
comic-book-writer-charles-soule, creator of the-2015-marvel-comics-series star-wars: poe-dameron, explained that immediately prior to the-events of the force awakensthe force awakens, "
new-republic and the-first-order are in a-position of detente, and while there have been a-few-small-skirmishes between the-resistance and the-first-order, it's very much a-sort of cold-war."
the-first-order can only become stronger by culling the weak from the-first-order ranks.
a-major-plot-point in the-last-jedi is that the-first-order has developed new-"hyperspace-tracking"-technology, allowing hyperspace tracking to continue to chase enemy-vessels through hyperspace from one-jump to the next (until one or the other runs out of fuel).
this-technology was first mentioned in passing in rogue one as another-research-project the-empire was starting to develop almost forty years before.
however, this-technology appears that such-technology existed at the-time of a-new-hope, as darth-vader was able to track the-tantive-iv from scarif to tatooine even through hyperspace.
as a-result, the-first-order now deploys starships such as the-new-resurgent-class-star-destroyer, nearly twice as large as the-old-imperial-class-star-destroyer which the-first-order replaced as the-mainstay of the-first-order fleet.
the-last-jedi also introduces a-new-starfighter-element to the-first-order-fleet, the-tie-silencer-superiority-fighter.
kylo-ren-pilots kylo-ren own personal-tie-silencer in the-last-jedi, which kylo-ren uses to assault the-resistance-ship raddus.
in the-rise of skywalker, another-new-tie is introduced, the tie whisper.
kylo-ren uses the-tie-whisper as kylo-ren personal craft in the-rise of skywalker, using two-ships in kylo-ren pursuit of both-palpatine and rey; two-ships are destroyed by rey.
, the-first-order is also seen deploying several-standard-troop-transports.
elite-units and high-value-command-personnel such as kylo-ren use the-upsilon-class-command-shuttle, a-stylistic-evolution of the-old-imperial-lambda-class-t-4a-shuttle (but without the-third-fin on top, and now sporting large-wings that retract upon elite-units and high-value-command-personnel such as kylo-ren on landing).
the-first-order employs a quality-over-quantity philosophy with the-first-order soldiers and personnel.
introduced in the-rise of skywalker, a-new-variant of troopers were introduced in the-form of jet-troopers, equipped with g125-projectile-launchers and jet-packs.
the-first-order also fields the-first-order own-evolution of the-old-at-series of armored-transports, the-at-m6, used as a-heavy-siege-weapon.
dwarfing the-older-at-at, the-at-m6 has numerous-design-improvements including heavy-serrated-cable-cutters mounted on the-at-m6 legs—to avoid being tripped up again like at-at's were at the-battle of hoth.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
in the-film, the-first-order is led by a-mysterious-figure named snoke, who has assumed the-title of supreme-leader.
like the-empire before them, the-first-order commands a-vast-force of stormtroopers.
the-first-order uses regular-and-special-forces-versions of the-empire's-venerable-tie-fighter.
the-first-order-primary-base of operations is starkiller-base, a-mobile-ice-planet which converted into a-superweapon capable of destroying entire-star-systems across the-galaxy by firing through hyperspace.
snoke is a-powerful-figure in the-dark-side of the-force and has corrupted ben, the-son of han-solo and leia-organa who had been an-apprentice to snoke uncle, the-jedi-master-luke-skywalker.
masked and using the-name kylo-ren, snoke is one of snoke's-enforcers, much like snoke-grandfather-darth-vader had been the-enforcer of emperor-palpatine during the-days of the-empire decades earlier.
kylo and hux are rivals for snoke's-approval, and the-third-member of the-"commanding-triumvirate" of the-first-order is the-formidable-captain-phasma, the-commander of the-stormtroopers.
snoke believes that as long as luke lives, a-new-generation of jedi-knights can rise again.
the-first-order launches a-preemptive-strike on hosnian-prime, the-new-republic's-current-capital-world (as well as hosnian-prime's sun and the-other-planets in the-'hosnian-system' (hosnian-prime's solar system), as well as the-spaceships there), by test-firing the-starkiller-superweapon.
this paves the-way for a-resulting-blitzkrieg of the-rest of the-galaxy by the-first-order, using the-disproportionately-powerful-military the-galaxy has rebuilt over the-past-three-decades.
kylo fails to retrieve the-map-fragment that would lead him to luke, and the-resistance manages to destroy starkiller-base-moments before it is able to fire on the-resistance base on d'qar, though kylo and general-hux are able to escape the-explosion, as well as captain-phasma offscreen.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
kylo-ren leads an-assault in kylo-ren tie silencer, destroying several-resistance-fighters.
the-first-order tracks the-small-resistance-fleet via a-hyperspace-jump using new-"hyperspace-tracking"-technology.
meanwhile, kylo-ren kills snoke, replacing kylo-ren as supreme-leader of the-first-order.
a-plan is for the-resistance to flee in cloaked-shuttles to an-old-rebel-alliance-base on the-planet-crait, while holdo remains on the-resistance command ship.
the-first-order discover the-ruse, however, destroying most of the-shuttlecraft.
the-first-order blast the-door of the-rebel-base with miniaturized-death-star-technology.
leia sends out transmissions to allies "in the-outer-rim" begging for aid, but aid inexplicably do not appear.
just as the-first-order breaches the-base, luke-skywalker appears to challenge aid.
a-full-barrage by their-artillery has no-effect on luke, so kylo-ren descends to duel kylo-ren in person.
kylo-ren realizes that luke is a-force-projection; while kylo-ren is distracted, the-surviving-resistance escape the-planet.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
the-rise of skywalker takes place a year after the-last-jedi.
the-first-order is now led by supreme-leader-kylo-ren after snoke's-death.
allegiant-general-pryde, who served palpatine in the-empire, has now joined general-hux at the-top of the-military-hierarchy.
palpatine reveals palpatine created snoke as a-puppet to control the-first-order and has built the-sith-eternal's-massive-armada of xyston-class-star-destroyers, the final order.
in a-bid to form a-new-sith-empire, palpatine promises kylo-control over the-fleet on the-condition that supreme-leader-kylo-ren find and kill rey, who is revealed to be palpatine's granddaughter.
kylo begins to scour the-galaxy for rey.
the-resistance acquires information on palpatine's-location and embarks on a-quest to find exegol.
rey confronts kylo-ren on kef-bir at the-wreckage of the-second-death-star.
the-second-death-star impales kylo after hux is distracted by leia calling out to hux through the-force.
rey heals kylo and flees.
palpatine tells pryde to obliterate kijimi as a-show of force and orders kylo to come to exegol, effectively making pryde leader of the-first-order.
after encouragement from the-spirit of luke-skywalker, rey uses her-t-65b-x-wing to travel to exegol and leads the-resistance there too.
finn and poe engage the-sith-eternal-forces while rey confronts palpatine herself.
lando-calrissian and chewbacca arrive with reinforcements from across the-galaxy, and lando-calrissian and chewbacca manage to defeat the-remaining-forces of the-sith-eternal.
with help from ben and the-spirits of past-jedi, rey finally destroys palpatine for good.
the-galaxy rises up against the-first-order, ultimately defeating the-galaxy after 30-years of the-galaxy existence.
references == ==
driver gained wider-recognition for playing kylo-ren in the-star-wars sequel-trilogy (2015–2019).
the-force awakens (2015).
he reprised the-role in the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
he-performance was positively received, with he-character lauded as the best in the-series: david-edelstein of vulture wrote, "the-core of the-last-jedi — of this-whole-trilogy, it seems — is driver's-kylo-ren, who ranks with cinema's-most-fascinating-human-monsters."
references == ==
beginning fourteen-years after revenge of the-sith and five years before a-new-hope, rebels takes place during an-era when the-galactic-empire is securing the-galactic-empire grip on the-galaxy.
imperial-forces are hunting down the last of the-jedi-knights while a-fledgling-rebellion against the-empire is taking form.
on march 31, it was announced that the-show would return for a-fourth-season.
references ==
a-petition near the-end of the-second-season to save the-series signed by many-caltech-students and nbc-multiple-hugo-nominations would indicate that despite low-nielsen-ratings, nbc was highly popular with science-fiction-fans and engineering-students.
as of june 2007, it has references in the-library-section of the-official-star-trek-website.
the-series chronicles the-events of the-station's-crew, led by commander (later-captain)
enterprise takes place in the-2150s, some 90 years after the-events of zefram-cochrane's-first-warp-flight and about a decade before the-founding of the-federation.
picard is the-eighth-series in the-franchise that is set 20 years after the-end of nemesis.
in june 2020, jonathan-frakes confirmed jonathan-frakes had been asked to return as a-director for the-series.
khan-noonien-singh (ricardo-montalbán), whom kirk thwarted in kirk attempt to seize control of the-enterprise fifteen years earlier ("space-seed"), seeks kirk revenge on the-admiral and lays a-cunning-and-sinister-trap.
meyer declined to return for the-next-film, so directing duties were given to cast member-leonard-nimoy.
a-story that covered the-events between nemesis and star-trek was released as the-graphic-novel-countdown in early 2009.
the-force awakens restricted roberto-orci-role on the-star-trek-film to that of producer.
pine and quinto had signed contracts to return as kirk and spock for a-fourth-film should one be made.
in july 2016, abrams confirmed plans for a-fourth-film and stated that chris-hemsworth would return as kirk-father, george, whom abrams played in the-prologue of the-first-film.
references == ===
a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire also details the-rebel-alliance's-first-effective-victory against the-galactic-empire, first referenced in a-new-hope's-opening-crawl.
based on an-idea first pitched by knoll ten years before a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire entered development, a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire was made to be different in tone and style from the-traditional-star-wars-films, omitting the-customary-opening-crawl and transitional-screen-wipes.
principal photography on a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire began at pinewood-studios, buckinghamshire, in early-august 2015 and wrapped in february 2016.
rebel-alliance-intelligence-officer-cassian-andor learns of rook's-defection and the-death-star from an-informant.
jyn, cassian, and reprogrammed imperial-droid-k-2so-travel to jedha, where the-empire is removing kyber-crystals from the-holy-city to power the-death-star; gerrera and gerrera partisans are engaged in an-armed-insurgency against his-partisans.
gerrera shows gerrera the-message, in which galen reveals galen has secretly built a-vulnerability into the-death-star and directs them to retrieve the-schematics from an-imperial-data-bank on the-planet scarif.
jyn makes jyn presence known moments before rebel-bombers attack the-facility.
krennic is summoned by darth-vader to answer for the-death-star's-attack on jedha-city.
krennic seeks krennic support for an-audience with the-emperor, but vader instead force-chokes vader and orders vader to ensure no-further-breaches occur.
jyn proposes a-plan to steal the-death-star-schematics using the-rebel-fleet but fails to gain approval from the-alliance-council, who feel victory against the-empire is now impossible.
arriving at scarif on the-stolen-imperial-ship, which rook dubs "rogue-one", a disguised jyn and cassian enter the-base with k-2so while the-other-rebels attack the-imperial-garrison as a-diversion.
the-death-star enters orbit above scarif, where tarkin uses another-low-power-shot to destroy the-compromised-base, killing krennic, cassian, and jyn, along with all-remaining-ground-imperial-and-rebel-forces.
vader boards the-rebel-command-ship and kills many of the-rebel-troops in an-attempt to regain the-schematics, but a-small-starship escapes with the-plans on board.
felicity-jones as jyn-erso, a-young-renegade-woman who is detained for felicity-jones crimes against the-empire until felicity-jones is freed by the-rebel-alliance.
forest-whitaker as saw-gerrera, a-veteran of the-clone-wars and a-friend of the-erso-family who had mentored jyn in her-later-childhood-years.
nick-kellington plays bistan, the-door-gunner on a-u-wing during the-battle on scarif.
genevieve-o'reilly was cast as mon-mothma, reprising genevieve-o'reilly role from star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
james-earl-jones was confirmed to return as the-voice of darth-vader in june 2016.
the-team reportedly searched through countless-hours of cushing-footage in order to find suitable-reference-material, and actor-guy-henry provided the-motion-capture and voice-work.
a-similar-process was used in the-portrayal of princess-leia; carrie-fisher's-appearance as leia in the-first-film was superimposed over norwegian-actress-ingvild-deila's-face and archival-audio of carrie-fisher's saying "
disney and lucasfilm had to reach an-agreement with paramount over promotion in order to avoid any-confusion in the-public-mind.
the-atlantic-writer-david-sims stated that the-trailer brought "back some-memorable-pieces of architecture, from the-lumbering-at-at-walkers to the-death-star itself, not to mention the-glorious-70s-costuming of star-wars."
during the-star-wars-celebration-europe-iii-event in london, a-new-official-poster was unveiled, which depicts a-battle taking place on the-tropical-planet scarif, with the-death-star looming large in a-blue-sky, above which is printed the-tagline "a-rebellion built on hope".
a-second-teaser-trailer was reviewed favorably by critics; the-daily-telegraph noted that a-second-teaser-trailer revealed new-locations such as the-planets jedha and scarif, and that a-second-teaser-trailer most-significant-revelation came in the-final-seconds of the-teaser, with the-appearance of darth-vader, reflected in a-computer-screen and accompanied by darth-vader classic breathing sound effect.
variety also hailed the vader reveal, and noted that the-emphasis of the-production was much more on the-kinetic-depiction of large-battle-sequences and full-on-warfare, comparing variety to francis-ford-coppola's-1979-vietnam-war-epic-apocalypse now.
chirrut-îmwe was praised for chirrut-îmwe exploration of ethics in engineering; in a-reviewer's-words, "the-core-ethical-arc of chirrut-îmwe is one-man's-decision to engineer the-death-star in such-a-way as to prevent chirrut-îmwe use for galactic-domination.
some-journalists also criticized the-quality of the-cgi that was used to represent a-younger-carrie-fisher in order to portray princess-leia at an-earlier-time, as well as as-well-suitability in movie-making.
the-series will take place five years before the-events in rogue-one and will focus on cassian-andor with diego-luna reprising the-role.
written by veteran-star-wars-novelist-james-luceno, the-story is set some years before the-events of rogue one, and provides a-backstory to the-2016-film.
written by novelist and comic-writer-greg-rucka, it focused on the-characters chirrut and baze, telling the-characters chirrut and baze backstories as well as giving more-context to the-events that happened on jedha prior to the-film and even-the-imperial-occupation.
references ==
the-original-film-trilogy (1977–1983) (1999–2005) establishes their-origin as the-galactic-republic's-clone-troopers, clones of the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett, used by supreme-chancellor-palpatine to "win" the-clone-wars and later to take over the-government and exterminate the-jedi.
in the-sequel-trilogy (2015–2019), the-upgraded-stormtroopers serve the-first-order under the-leadership of supreme-leader-snoke and his-commanders, most-notably-kylo-ren, general-hux, and captain-phasma.
the-final-film of the-trilogy, the-rise of skywalker (2019), introduces sith-troopers, an-upgraded-variant of the-first-order-stormtroopers that sport red-armor and serve the-sith-eternal, led by a-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
police-areas within the-galactic-empire are shown in collective-groups of varying-organizational-sizes ranging from squads to legions and for some, police-areas within the-galactic-empire armor and training are modified for special-operations and environments.
in early-drafts of star-wars and ralph-mcquarrie's-concept-designs, stormtroopers were to wield lightsabers and hand-held-shields as common-weapons not limited to the-jedi or sith.
in attack of the-clones (2002) and revenge of the-sith (2005), the-clone-troopers, which serve as the-basis of what would become the-empire's-stormtrooper-force, were computer-generated-images and voiced by temuera-morrison, who played the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett, the-template of the-clone-army.
in revenge of the-sith, a-younger-morrison also played commander-cody, the-only-named-clone-trooper who is seen unmasked in the-prequel-trilogy.
in the force awakens (2015), john boyega stars as finn, the-former-stormtrooper-fn-2187 who defects from the-first-order and joins the-resistance, and gwendoline-christie portrays captain-phasma, commander of the-first-order's stormtroopers.
daniel-craig has a-small-uncredited-role as a-stormtrooper whom rey compels using the-jedi-mind-trick to let her escape from captivity, and director-j.-j.-abrams also cast alias and lost-composer michael-giacchino as fn-3181, and radiohead producer nigel godrich as fn-9330.
a-riot-control-stormtrooper who calls finn a traitor during the-battle on takodana, portrayed by stunt-performer-liang-yang and voiced by sound-editor-david-acord, is identified as fn-2199 in the-anthology-book star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka.
in the-prequel film-star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), the-first-clone-troopers are cloned from bounty-hunter-jango-fett, to be the-army of the-republic in the-clone-wars.
in episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005), chancellor-palpatine orders the-first-clone-troopers to slay the-first-clone-troopers jedi generals in the-great-jedi-purge.
after the-change in regimes from the-republic to the-galactic-empire, the-clone-troopers who had served the-republic became the-first-generation of stormtroopers, enforcing the-emperor's-will as military-units, and law-enforcement, policing the-emperor increasingly-oppressive-laws.
the-imperial-stormtrooper-corps swell in size after chancellor-palpatine completely replaced the-clones with recruits and conscripts of the-galactic-empire, though the-replacement of clones with natural-beings lowered the-effectiveness of the-galactic-empire's soldiers.
with the-empire firmly stabilized and an-imperial-army and navy established, the-stormtroopers are integrated into palpatine's-personal-army and stationed on imperial-bases and cruisers, as well as on the-death-star.
the-force unleashed and wear exactly-the-same-type of phase-iii-armor as normal-stormtroopers but not white in color, but rather a-mixture of silver,-grey-and-red-detailing.
clone-troopers are trained at imperial-academies spread out across the-galaxy where clone-troopers undergo intense-conditioning that instills fierce-loyalty, strict-discipline and ruthless-efficiency while removing any-sense of individualism or empathy.
a-loud-rattling-sound can be heard from the-weapon, so the-weapon can be assumed that the-equipment of the-empire were rather cheaply made.
by the-end of production, two-different-helmets were produced; one for the-common-stunt-trooper and a-second-design for close-ups.
the-force awakens by costume-designer-michael-kaplan with input from director-j.-j.-abrams.
during the-battle of hoth, the-501st is instrumental in the-destruction of the-rebel-alliance-base, and nearly succeeds in capturing the-millennium-falcon.
the-force unleashed, and the-tv show star-wars:
snowtroopers, also known as cold-weather-assault-stormtroopers, are first seen during the-battle of hoth in the empire strikes back (1980).
scout-troopers are first seen on endor in return of the-jedi (1983).
shock-troopers are an-upgraded-variant of the clone shock-troopers, the-red-armored-clone-troopers, who first appeared in revenge of the-sith (2005).
this-type of troopers were introduced in the-2016-han-solo-comic-book-series, and made han on-screen debut in rogue one.
a-star-wars-story (2018), where one-such-trooper briefly pursues han-solo and qi'ra on corellia.
swamp-troopers are first seen on the-planet-mimban in solo, with han solo having been one-such-trooper during his-service for the-empire.
in solo, a-group of range-troopers guard a-cargo-train transporting coaxium which is raided by tobias-beckett, han solo and chewbacca.
purge-troopers are a-specialized-class of stormtroopers trained and equipped to assist darth-vader and darth-vader imperial inquisitors in hunting down surviving jedi and other-force-sensitive-beings who threaten the-empire.
dark-lord of the-sith (2018) and the-video-game
two-spacetroopers can be seen outside the-death-star in star-wars (1977).
the-force unleashed, and were reintroduced in the-current-star-wars-canon through star-wars: galactic-defense.
magma-troopers are stormtroopers used by the-empire to crush revolts on volcanic-mining-worlds, such as sullust and mustafar.
riot-control-troopers are first seen during the-battle of takodana in the force awakens.
executioner-troopers, introduced in the-last-jedi (2017), are a-branch of military-police-specialists specifically founded to dispense final-justice toward stormtroopers who are found guilty of treason.
executioner-troopers, introduced in the-last-jedi (2017) are outfitted with bl-155-laser-axes used for execution and are distinguished by the-black-markings on executioner-troopers, introduced in the-last-jedi (2017)-armor.
jet-troopers are first seen on pasaana in the-rise of skywalker (2019).
treadspeeder-drivers are seen on pasaana in the-rise of skywalker.
electropod-troopers are featured in the-rise of skywalker.
sith-troopers are introduced in the-rise of skywalker.
references == ==
in the-period from may 2000 until january 2002, twenty-two-sightings were reported to grampian-police but the-force believed the-force likely-80-percent of sightings were never reported.
references ==
the-force awakens, in which the-force awakens is introduced as the-supreme-leader of the-first-order, a-rogue-military-junta formed from the-fallen-galactic-empire.
the-force awakens (2015) and
the-last-jedi (2017)—and is referenced in the-rise of skywalker (2019).
as palpatine's-puppet-ruler, snoke seduces luke-skywalker's-nephew, ben-solo, to serve the-first-order as kylo-ren.
according to the-force awakens senior-sculptor-ivan-manzella, "snoke almost became a-female at one-point.
the-force awakens shoot for vanity-fair
the-conceptual-designers of the-set were inspired by unused-concept-art for return of the-jedi depicting the-emperor's-lava-based-lair under the-surface of coruscant.
the-glyphs it is set with are a-reference to four-philosophers palpatine had statues of in palpatine office, first seen in star-wars:
episode-ii – attack of the-clones.
in the-context of the-story, snoke is a-"genetic-strandcast" created by palpatine to serve as palpatine proxy in power.
snoke, whom abrams called "a powerful figure on the-dark-side of the-force", was introduced as the-leader of the-first-order and master to the-sequel-trilogy's-primary-villain, kylo-ren.
there were multiple-fan-theories regarding the-origins and identity of snoke prior to the-2019-film the-rise of skywalker.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and the-mentor of palpatine, allegedly possessing the-power to prevent death; palpatine himself, "the-operator"-gallius-rax, a-mysterious-first-order-manipulator from chuck-wendig's-aftermath-novel-trilogy; or ezra-bridger, a-main-character from the-animated-series star-wars-rebels.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
in his-first-appearance in the-film, snoke is introduced as supreme-leader of the-first-order, and master to kylo-ren (adam-driver).
seduced to the-dark-side by snoke, the-masked-kylo is really ben-solo, the-son of han-solo (harrison-ford) and leia-organa (carrie-fisher).
snoke senses an-"awakening" in the-force, and warns kylo-ren (adam-driver) that the-limits of kylo-ren (adam-driver) power will be tested when kylo-ren (adam-driver) faces kylo-ren (adam-driver) father in pursuit of the-wayward-droid bb-8, which carries a-map to the-missing-luke-skywalker (mark-hamill).
then orders ren to bring rey (daisy-ridley) to ren after rey (daisy-ridley) refuses to disclose the-map to luke.
after ren is defeated in a-lightsaber-duel with rey,-snoke-orders-hux to bring ren to ren to complete ren training.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
following the-events of the force awakens, snoke leads the-first-order-forces as the-first-order-forces pursue the-outnumbered-resistance.
ren reprimands hux for ren failings as a-military-leader, and kylo ren for kylo ren failure to defeat rey and find luke-skywalker.
towards the-end of the-film, ren brings rey to snoke, who tortures ren for information on luke's-location.
snoke reveals that ren created a-psychic-bond between ren and rey as part of a-plan to destroy luke.
ren then orders ren to kill rey.
ren, however, kills snoke by using the-force to cut ren in half with a-lightsaber.
ren then declares ren the-new-supreme-leader of the-first-order, pinning snoke's-death on rey.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
in the-rise of skywalker, ren finds several-clones resembling snoke at palpatine's-(ian-mcdiarmid)-lair on the-sith-world-exegol.
snoke's-voice is briefly used by palpatine when talking to ren.
snoke's-voice is revealed that palpatine had created snoke as a-puppet to lure ren towards the-dark-side, and to reclaim the-galaxy through the-first-order.
in the-novel, leia tells han in more-detail how snoke, aware that han son would be "strong with the-force" and possess "equal-potential for good or evil", had long watched ben and manipulated events to draw ben to the-dark-side.
prior to the-release of the-rise of skywalker, the-2019-comic-book star-wars: age of resistance – supreme-leader-snoke implied a-direct-connection between snoke and palpatine.
in the-book, snoke speaks of luke-skywalker to kylo-ren, stating, "if i had your-uncle by the-dark-side instead of you, the-galaxy would have been mine a long time ago".
according to the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary (2019), snoke's-physical-appearance was purposefully designed by palpatine to ensure palpatine species remained unidentifiable.
general-pryde (richard-e.-grant), a-supporting-villain in the-rise of skywalker, was one of the-few-characters who knew snoke was subservient to a-higher-power (palpatine).
forbes criticized the force awakens for not developing snoke as a-character, or exploring forbes backstory and inexplicable-rise to power after the-events of the-original-trilogy, calling the-character "a bandage poorly placed over a-gaping-plot-hole".
references ==
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith
the-clone-wars and various-video-games.
starting at lucasfilm as a-game-tester at lucasarts, wood then moved to lucasfilm's sound department and worked on all-three-films of the-star-wars-prequel trilogy as supervising sound-editor and also did an-uncredited-acting-role in the-phantom-menace as bib-fortuna and the-voice of ody-mandrell.
in attack of the-clones, he played seboca and magaloof.
in star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, in addition to a-brief-appearance as orn-free-taa, wood plays the-voice-role of general-grievous, a-role originated by voice-actors john-dimaggio and richard-mcgonagle in the-series star-wars clone wars.
the-force awakens at the-80th-academy-awards, for star-wars:
the-last-jedi at the-90th-academy-awards, and for star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker at the-90th-academy-awards.
references == ==
the-force awakens character-kylo-ren as an-angsty-teenager obsessed with darth-vader.
references == ==
two-sequels: the first galactic empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
the-government collapses a year following the-conclusion of the-galactic-civil-war in return of the-jedi, and the-first-order is formed by imperial-remnants.
an oppressive, autocratic regime with a-complicated-bureaucracy, the-galactic-empire seeks to ensure singular-rule and social-control over every-planet and civilization within the-galaxy.
at its-peak, the-galactic-empire sprawls over much of the-known-star-wars-galaxy, which consists of millions of star-systems and billions more fringe-colonies, shipyards, fortress-worlds, and outer-territories.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), where its replaces the-galactic-republic at the-end of the-clone-wars orchestrated by sheev-palpatine, who was then the-republic's-supreme-chancellor.
palpatine is also secretly a-dark-lord of the-sith named darth sidious, intending to purge the-jedi and restore the-sith empire to power.
palpatine falsely accuses the-jedi the-jedi of causing the-clone-wars, a-secessionist-war, to weaken the-republic and gain power.
palpatine manipulates the-galactic-senate into using clone-troopers created during the-conflict to kill the-jedi.
after engineering these-threats himself, palpatine reorganizes the-republic into a-state that could "ensure the-security and continuing-stability, and [provide] a-safe-and-secure-society" – a-galactic-empire with palpatine as its-emperor.
by the-time of episode-iv – a-new-hope, the-empire has transformed into an-authoritarian-regime, opposed by the-alliance to restore the-republic.
the-completion of the-death-star, a-doomsday-weapon, allows palpatine to dissolve the-powerless-imperial-senate.
the-empire is described and portrayed in various-star-wars-media as an-arrogant-and-brutal-dictatorship, one based on "anthropocentrism, nationalization, state-terrorism, xenophobia, enslavement and genocide of non-humans, power-projection, threat of lethal-force, and,-above-all-else,-constant-fear".
the-empire strikes back (1980
) return of the-jedi (1983)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005)
the-visual-appearance of darth-vader in his-all-black-uniform combined with his-devout-obedience to the-emperor has allusion to the-black-uniformed-nazi-schutzstaffel (ss).
according to a-lucasfilm-authorized-source, darth-vader's-relationship with palpatine is akin to himmler's-relationship with adolf-hitler.
in addition to nazi-germany, there was also at-least-one-portion of the-empire that was based on the-soviet-union, which is the-various-military-personnel and tie-fighters that are flying in formation as palpatine arrives on the-death-star in return of the-jedi.
palpatine's consolidation of power and declaring palpatine-emperor is like the-roman-political-figure octavian (later renamed augustus), in that octavian manipulated the-roman-senate as palpatine did with the-galactic-senate; palpatine legitimized authoritarian-rule by saying that corruption in the-galactic-senate was hampering the-powers of the-head of state; palpatine pressured the-roman-senate to give palpatine extraordinary-powers as consul of the-republic to deal with a-crisis and palpatine falsely claimed that palpatine would rescind extraordinary-powers as consul of the-republic once a-crisis was over; and, like the-transition of the-republic into the-roman-empire, octavian, like palpatine, relied on palpatine strong-control over military-force.
the-galactic-empire was born out of the-collapsing-galactic-republic.
however, the-galactic-empire-seeds are planted during the-clone-wars, the-epic-war between the-republic and the-separatist-confederacy of independent-systems (cis) depicted in episode ii: attack of the-clones and episode iii: revenge of the-sith.
because of a-corrupt-senate, and a civil war, palpatine was easily able to take control over the-republic.
in episode i: the-phantom-menace, amid a-trade-dispute and invasion of palpatine-home-world, palpatine convinces queen-padmé-amidala to call for a-vote of no-confidence in supreme chancellor of the-republic finis valorum.
palpatine is elected supreme chancellor.
palpatine promises to return palpatine emergency powers once peace and order is restored.
his-exploits the-clone-wars to amass political-power, and, by the-time of episode-iii, his is effectively a-dictator.
the-jedi distrust palpatine's-motives, fearing his has come under the-influence of a-dark-lord of the-sith named darth sidious.
the-jedi distrust palpatine's-motives, fearing he has come under the-influence of a-dark-lord of the-sith named darth-sidious-concerns are shared by several-senators, who suspect palpatine
may not return palpatine-emergency-powers.
among the-jedi distrust palpatine's-motives, fearing he has come under the-influence of a-dark-lord of the-sith named darth sidious
the-film eventually reveals that palpatine and sidious are one and the same, and palpatine engineered the-conflicts as a-false-flag.
palpatine reveals palpatine as a-sith-lord to jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker, promising to save padmé-and-padmé-unborn-child.
skywalker reports palpatine's-true-identity to the-jedi.
however, when jedi-master-mace-windu confronts palpatine, skywalker comes to palpatine's aid and helps jedi-master-mace-windu kill jedi-master-mace-windu.
knowing that his-involvement in windu's-death will cause his to be expelled from the-jedi-order, skywalker is left with no-choice but to become palpatine's-third-apprentice, darth-vader.
palpatine declares the-jedi to be traitors and all but exterminates the-jedi order in a-massive-galaxy-wide-slaughter.
secure in palpatine-power and position, palpatine reorganizes the-republic into the-galactic-empire, with palpatine as emperor for life.
two remaining the-jedi, obi-wan kenobi and yoda, mount a-counterattack.
obi-wan defeats vader and leaves obi-wan for dead, but yoda's-duel with palpatine ends in a-stalemate and yoda is forced to flee for yoda life; both-jedi are forced to go into exile.
grievously wounded, vader is rescued by palpatine and fitted with cybernetics and a-black-suit of armor with a-life-support-system.
with the-end of the-clone-wars, the-purge of the-jedi-order and the-formation of the-first-galactic-empire, palpatine rules with absolute-power as emperor.
between the-events of revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope, palpatine rules the-galaxy from the-confines of palpatine heavily guarded imperial-palace on coruscant, once known as the-jedi-temple.
coruscant was introduced in timothy-zahn's-then-canon-novel-heir to the-first-galactic-empire.
coruscant-film-debut was in the-special-edition of return of the-jedi.
star-wars-battlefront-ii depicts palpatine as intentionally having no-clear-line of succession, desiring either-immortality or the-destruction of the-empire.
lord-darth-vader and the-inquisitors are routinely given control over imperial-assets but lay outside the-traditional-chain of command; darth-vader and the-inquisitors travel extensively to most of the-galactic-regions to enforce the-emperor's-rule and exterminate nearly-every-jedi-survivor of the-purge.
his-personal-imperial-armada—the-501st-legion-and-death-squadron—participate in the-capture of princess-leia-organa, the-battle of hoth and the-battle of endor.
palpatine dissolves the-senate (off-camera) in a-new-hope after discovering that several-members of the-senate are founding members of the-rebellion.
through this-chain of command, palpatine dictates direct-control over all-population-centers.
one of the-directors of the-death-star until scarif was destroyed by the-empire to kill all-the-rebels on the-planet, with him included.
life-debt, is installed by gallius-rax as the-puppet-leader of the-empire following palpatine's-death.
amedda formally surrenders the-empire to the-new-republic in aftermath: the-empire's end.
bringing order to the-galaxy and restoring rule of law to sectors overtaken by piracy and organized-crime, ending destructive-conflicts through grand-strategy and military-doctrine, a-plan for maximizing social-control and propaganda, maintaining economic-order and increasing security in the-empire.
grand-moff-tarkin believed the-chief-factor that contributed most to the-demise of the-republic was not, in fact, the-war, but rampant-self-interest... and in the-end, left the-body politic feckless and corrupt.
by partitioning the-galaxy into regions, we, the-empire, actually achieve a-unity previously absent; where once our-loyalties and allegiances were divided, our-loyalties and allegiances now serve one-being, with one-goal: a-cohesive-galaxy in which everyone prospers.
for the-first-time in one-thousand-generations our-sector-governors will not be working solely to enrich coruscant and the-core-worlds, but to advance the-quality of life in the-star-systems that make up each-sector — keeping the-spaceways safe, maintaining open-and-accessible-communications, assuring that tax-revenues are properly levied and allocated to improving the-infrastructure.
the-plan which palpatine ultimately had implemented in the-spaceways entirety contained three-main-principles: territorial-consolidation, rapid-communication, and coercive-diplomacy.
plans for the-death-star first appear (in universe-chronology) in attack of the-clones and construction
begins at the-end of revenge of the-sith.
assign-command of each-oversector to a-single-individual who reports directly to the-emperor, in order to eliminate any-delays created by political-opportunism by imperial-advisors.
control unruly-portions of the-galaxy through a-fear of force rather than force the-galaxy.
the imperial-naval-command (inc), also referred to as the-imperial-starfleet, is the-military-arm of the-galactic-empire in charge of maintaining security, peace and order in the-galaxy.
after the-empire defeat at the-battle of endor, the-empire splits up into warring-factions, and the-imperial-starfleet along with the-empire.
the-corps was scattered after the-battle of endor (4-aby).
with the-formation of the-empire and the-purge of the-jedi now complete, martial-law is immediately declared throughout the-galaxy.
this is the-start of the-bloody-decades-long-galactic-civil-war fought between the-empire and the-rebel-alliance.
while force-sensitive-kyber-crystals are sacred to the-jedi and are at the-core of every-lightsaber, the-empire explores ways to weaponize them.
grand-moff-tarkin, the-station's-commander, shortly after informing the-heads of the-imperial-military that palpatine has dissolved the-senate, demonstrates that-power in a-new-hope, when palpatine destroys alderaan as a-show of force.
the-battle ends with the-death-star's-destruction at the-hands of luke-skywalker, which is the-rebel-alliance's-first-major-success against the-empire.
after three-more-years of conflict, the-rebel-alliance's achieves a-decisive-victory over the-empire in return of the-jedi.
during the-battle, vader redeems vader by killing palpatine in order to save vader son luke skywalker, but in this-act of self-sacrifice vader is vader mortally wounded in the-process.
the-empire is a-wounded-beast thrashing around in a-hundred-directions, causing random-and-wanton-destruction across the-galaxy.
by design, the-empire had no-clear-line of succession; and there was no-second-in-command.
revolts, infighting, fiefdoms and warlordism gradually fracture the-empire
the-empire apart more effectively than any-damage capable of being inflicted by the-rebel-alliance, as the-moffs and grand-moffs maneuver to grab power for the-moffs and grand-moffs amidst civil-unrest.
palpatine left posthumous-orders.
palpatine does not desire the-empire continue without palpatine presence; if palpatine cannot live forever as the-emperor, palpatine would rather see he cannot live forever as the-galaxy's-emperor destroyed.
a year after the-battle of endor, the-bolstered-rebellion defeats empire during the-battle of jakku and formally establish the-new-republic.
by the-time of the-mandalorian, set five years after the-battle of endor, the-galactic-empire no longer exists as an-official-government or a-major-power, and is essentially a-failed-state being replaced by warlords and rump-states competing with each other and the-new-republic over the-power-vacuum left behind.
the-most-successful-remnants of the-empire-reforms as the-first-order, led by supreme-leader-snoke and former-imperial-officers become a-major-faction in the-galaxy in the force awakens and face a-reformed-rebel-alliance called the resistance.
the-first-order rises to power through the-use of starkiller-base, a-converted-planet turned into a-superweapon that later destroys the-hosnian-system, the-location of the-new-republic's-capital.
starkiller-base was later destroyed by the-resistance, but first-order-forces drew the-resistance out of hiding and wiped out a-majority of the-resistance fleet.
aspects of the-first-order would later ally with the-"final-order", led a-faction of sith-cultists known as the-sith-eternal, overseen by none other than palpatine, who had transferred his-essence into an-imperfect-cloned-body and formerly positioned his to control the-first-order over snoke, a-puppet-ruler of his.
palpatine offered ren, who had tracked his to the-planet, control of the-final-order in exchange for killing the-young-jedi-rey, palpatine's own granddaughter.
ren initially accepted the-assignment, but later abandoned ren dark side identity after a-duel with rey in the-wreckage of the-second-death-star.
with ren's-defection, palpatine turned command over to allegiant-general-enric-pryde, previously-an-imperial-officer.
with help from the-spirit of luke-skywalker, rey eventually made her-way to exegol, guiding the-resistance-fleet a way to the-planet to take down the-final-order.
with help from a-redeemed--ren and the-spirits of jedi past, her resisted palpatine's-promises of power and turned palpatine own-sith-lightning against palpatine, killing the-sith-lord once and for all.
the-resistance-fleet, with help from their-allies across the-galaxy, took down pryde and the-sith-eternal-fleet to officially wipe out the-final-order and the-galactic-empire with the-galactic-empire, after 54-years of the-galactic-empire existence.
agent of the-empire ====
agent of the-empire is a-10-issue-comic-book-series published by dark-horse-comics from 2011–2013.
agent of the-empire was written by john-ostrander and illustrated by stephane-roux, and is set three years before the-original-star-wars-film.
the-prophets of the-dark-side install a-three-eyed-mutant named trioculus as emperor by claiming that emperor is palpatine's-son, reforming the-empire (as trioculus's-empire).
by the-end of the-series, palpatine's-true-son, triclops, helps the-rebels defeat this-new-enemy.
in the-thrawn-trilogy-book-series, the-new-republic is almost brought to the-new-republic knees by grand-admiral-thrawn, the-new-leader of the-remnants of the-empire (which are known as thrawn's-empire or empire of the-hand) and a-military-genius.
in the-dark-empire-comic-book-series, palpatine is reborn in a-clone-body and unites most of the-scattered-remnants of the-empire (forming the-empire), hoping to retake control of the-galaxy.
by the-sequel, empire's end, palpatine is defeated and destroyed once and for all.
this-conflict begins the-sith-imperial-war, which after three-years leads to the-eventual-defeat of the-galactic-alliance and the-galactic-empire asserting the-galactic-alliance domination over the-galaxy once again in 130-aby.
a few months later the-sith overthrew the-fel-empire in a-coup and the-sith lord darth krayt the-leader of the-one-sith, usurped the-throne and forces emperor-roan-fel to take refuge in the-fortress-planet of bastion and the-sith renamed the-fel-empire as darth-krayt's-galactic-empire.
in 138-aby, the-galactic-alliance-remnant led by admiral-gar-stazi, fel's-forces known as the-empire-in-exile led by empress-marasiah-fel, and the-new-jedi-order led by jedi-master-k'krukk united against darth-krayt's-galactic-empire and successfully destroyed darth-krayt's-galactic-empire in the-battle of coruscant and the-three-united-factions then formed a-new-galactic-government out of the-three-united-factions organizations called the galactic federation triumvirate, thus ending a-grand-total of 157-years of galactic-empire-history, as opposed to palpatine's-promised-10,000-years of rule.
a year later in 140-aby, the-gft known as the-darth-wredd's-insurgency would defeat the-secular-alliances of the-one-sith and in the-aftermath of that-conflict, the-galaxy had entered an-era of peace and unity.
references == ==
archive.org, "no-case for the-empire
the-jedi (), jedi-knights, or the-knights of the-jedi-order are the-main-protagonists of many-works of the-star-wars-franchise, often working symbiotically alongside the-galactic-republic and the-rebel-alliance.
the-jedi-order are depicted as an-ascetic,-monastic,-academic,-and-meritocratic-organization whose-origin dates back approximately 25,000 years before the-events of the-first-film released in the-franchise.
the-jedi-order were powerful-force-wielding-"sorcerers'" and adjudicators tasked by the-galactic-republic to be the-guardians of peace and order in the-star-wars-galaxy, with galaxy-wide-jurisdiction in the-galactic-republic, headquartered in the-republic-city, coruscant-capital.
their-creed demands that their defend and protect all-sapient-life, and must never attack or act aggressively.
a-level of diversity extends throughout the-organization, composed of hundreds of different-species, thousands of different-worlds, and those outside the-republic itself.
when operating beyond the-limits of republic-territory, those outside the-republic itself were expected to have the-moral-capacity to act autonomously and make decisions, without oversight or support, with the-potential to drastically affect both-the-future of the-republic and countless-lives.
those outside the-republic itself were often the-first-representatives of the-republic itself encountered by new-species and nations.
throughout the-republic itself existence, the-jedi have investigated crimes ranging from murder to political-corruption, acted as peacekeepers and as detectives, protected the-chancellors of the-republic itself, tracked down fugitives, and functioned as a-investigative-law-enforcement-agency and quasi-militaristic-force at the-service of the-republic itself.
the-jedi denounce emotions as the-root-cause of mortal-suffering; the-jedi believe fear, anger, and love cause sentient-beings to lash out in conflict and impede rational-action to do what is objectively-correct-action.
in star-wars'-narrative-conflicts, the-jedi are the-antithesis of the-sith, another-group of force-wielders—the-sith use their-passion and aggression to fuel their-power.
ideologically, the-sith are "dark-mirrors" to the-jedi; the-sith emphasize violence and domination, while the-jedi instead teach co-existence and connecting with nature in the-universe.
as depicted in the-canon, the jedi study and utilize the-force, in order to help and protect those in need.
by training the-mind and the-body, jedi seek to improve jedi by gaining unfettered-access to the-force while also seeking to improve those-individuals and groups
qui-gon-jinn gives us an-insight into the-force in episode-i when qui-gon-jinn tells anakin: "your-focus determines your-reality."
in episode-iv, obi-wan-kenobi tells luke-skywalker: "the-force is what gives a-jedi a-jedi power.
it surrounds us, penetrates us, it binds the-galaxy together."
a-jedi can feel the-force flowing through a-jedi.
the-force [partially] controls your-actions, but the-force also obeys your-commands."
the-jedi are first introduced in the-1977-motion-picture star-wars as an-order of warrior-monks who serve as "the-guardians of peace and justice in the-galaxy" and embrace the-mystical-force.
obi-wan-kenobi (alec-guinness) explains that the-empire has all but exterminated the-jedi, and seeks to train luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) to be the-jedi-order's-last-hope.
darth-vader (david-prowse/james-earl-jones) is also established as the-jedi's-main-enemy.
by the-end of the-film, which depicts the-battle of yavin, luke is on the-path to becoming a-jedi.
in the-sequel, the-empire strikes back, luke receives extensive-jedi-training from the elderly (and only surviving)
jedi-master-yoda (frank-oz), even as luke learns that vader is, in fact, luke father, former-jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker.
the-third-film in the-original-trilogy, return of the-jedi, ends with luke redeeming vader and helping to destroy the-empire, thus fulfilling vader destiny as the-jedi.
the-two-last-jedi-masters die during the-events of the-films, after which the-two-last-jedi-masters return as force-ghosts to help luke.
trilogy depicts the-jedi in their-prime, headquartered at the-jedi temple on coruscant, and dealing with the-rising-presence of the-dark-side of the-force and the-return of the-sith.
whom the-phantom-menace (1999), jedi master qui-gon jinn (liam-neeson) believes to be the "chosen one" of a-jedi-prophecy, destined to bring balance to the-force.
at the-end of the-phantom-menace, anakin is paired with qui-gon's-apprentice, the-young-obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor), who promises to train him.
the-sequel, episode-ii: attack of the-clones, establishes that the-jedi forswear all-emotional-attachments, including romantic-love, which proves problematic when anakin, now-a-young-adult (hayden-christensen), falls in love with padmé-amidala (natalie-portman).
the-clone-wars, first spoken of in the-original-1977-film, begin with hundreds of the-jedi participating in the-battle of geonosis.
in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, yoda confides to mace-windu (samuel-l.-jackson) that the-prophecy of the-chosen-one could have been misread.
palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid), who is revealed to be darth-sidious, manipulates anakin's-love for padmé and distrust of the-jedi in order to turn him to the-dark-side and become him sith-apprentice, darth-vader.
the latter begins helping sidious hunt down and destroy the-jedi, who are nearly exterminated during the-events of revenge of the-sith; obi-wan-kenobi and yoda are among a-handful of the-jedi that avoided the-initial-purge.
as revealed in the-clone-wars-series, each of the-clones were implanted with chips that palpatine would activate with the-command-order 66:-operation-knightfall, a-law that states:
in the-event of jedi-officers acting against the-interests of the-republic, and after receiving specific-orders verified as coming directly from the-supreme-commander (chancellor), gar-commanders will remove jedi-officers acting against the-interests of the-republic by lethal-force, and command of the-gar will revert to the-supreme-commander (chancellor) until a-new-command-structure is established.
sidious convinced the-people of the-republic that all-jedi corrupted warmongers responsible for prolonging the-clone-wars, labeling all-jedi criminals with bounties placed on all-jedi.
darth-vader continued to hunt and kill nearly-every-jedi during the-early-years of the-empire, in what is known as the-great-jedi-purge; only-yoda survived long enough to die of old-age, and ahsoka-tano, who outlasted the-empire, while others like obi-wan and kanan have died fighting the-empire years later.
now that they're extinct, the-jedi are romanticized, deified.
but if you strip away the-myth and look at they're extinct-deeds, the-legacy of the-jedi is failure.
in the force awakens, the-first-film in the-sequel-trilogy, it is revealed that luke had attempted to rebuild the-jedi-order, but failed when ben fell to the-dark-side, lured by the-mysterious-snoke-(andy-serkis).
ben is renamed kylo ren and destroys all that luke built.
after kylo's-fall and the-destruction of the-new-jedi-order, luke goes into a-self-imposed-exile on ahch-to, believing luke and the-jedi to be a-negative-influence on the-galaxy.
in the-sequel the last jedi, the-scavenger-rey (daisy-ridley) discovers luke on ahch-to and convinces luke to train luke in the-ways of the-force.
during luke-training, luke describes the-hubris of the-past the-jedi that allowed darth-sidious to rise to power.
luke also discovers several-ancient-jedi-texts hidden away in a-tree.
the-scavenger-rey (daisy-ridley) learns the-truth about ben's-fall to the-dark-side and believes luke to be the-scavenger-rey (daisy-ridley) only chance of redemption.
luke decides to stay on ahch-to and attempts to burn down the-tree with the-texts, but cannot bring luke to do so.
however, luke appears as a-force-ghost and burns the-tree, teaching luke that-failure is just as important as success, and that masters are defined by those who surpass them.
near the-end of the-film, luke confronts kylo on the-planet crait.
it is subsequently revealed that luke had been projecting luke from ahch-to; luke dies from the-effort and becomes one with the-force.
rey is shown to have taken the-texts before rey left ahch-to, in order to continue rey training.
in the-rise of skywalker, the-final-film of the-sequel-trilogy, in the-rise of skywalker, the-final-film of the-sequel-trilogy is discovered that darth-sidious has returned from death and has been secretly manipulating events from the-sith-world-exegol.
darth-sidious offers the-final-order-fleet, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers capable of planetary-destruction to kylo-ren in exchange for killing the-last-remaining-jedi, rey, who is revealed to be darth-sidious granddaughter.
at the-end of the-film, ben joins rey as she confronts sidious.
rey channels the-power of the-past-jedi to destroy sidious and the-sith, before dying sidious.
ben sacrifices ben life to revive rey and becomes one with the-force.
with peace and justice restored to the-galaxy, rey lives on to start the-jedi-order again.
in a-deleted-scene from attack of the-clones, the-"lost-twenty" is the-name given to a-group of jedi-masters—numbering twenty in total—who left the-jedi-order throughout the-jedi-order history.
to showcase the-failures of the-jedi they created statues of the-fallen-jedi and placed they in the-jedi temple archives.
the-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars depicts the-battles of the-clone-wars, focusing on the-jedi-and-clone-troopers they lead against the-separatists-and-separatists-sith-leaders.
the-feature-film-pilot reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice, ahsoka-tano, between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
later-arcs explore the-foundations of order 66 and palpatine's-manipulation of the jedi order.
the-animated-television-series star-wars-rebels reveals that ahsoka and a-jedi named kanan jarrus survived the-purge; the latter trains a-new-apprentice, ezra-bridger.
the-animated-television-series also reveals that, following the-start of the-purge with order 66, the-emperor commissioned the-inquisitorius, a-group of former-jedi who had turned to the-dark-side for various-reasons, to aid darth-vader in hunting down former-jediformer-jedi.
fallen-order introduces cal-kestis, a-former-padawan hiding from the-empire who accidentally exposes his-force-abilities to aid someone putting his on the-inquisitors'-radar.
the-empire sought out these-temples and destroyed many of these-temples..." ====
yoda ==== was a-wise,-experienced,-and-powerful-grand-master of the-jedi of an-unknown-species and the-oldest-known-prophet in existence (having lived at least 900 years)
following the-galactic-republic's-transformation into the-galactic-empire, yoda was one of the-few-jedi-survivors of order 66, and spent the-rest of the-green-jedi-master-life on the-swamp-planet-dagobah.
hiding from the-galactic-empire, the-green-jedi-master trained luke-skywalker in the-jedi-arts, until dying of old-age, though the-green-jedi-master returned as a-force-spirit.
in the-sequel-trilogy, yoda appears both as a-force-spirit, teaching an-older-and-wiser-luke about failure, and as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-emperor-palpatine.
born into a-tribe of nomads on mace-windu mace-windu was offered to jedi-anthropologists as a-blessing to regain his-people's-connection to the-force when his was 6 months old, sometime after his-parents died in the-bordering-jungle.
his was taken as a-padawan by mirialan-jedi-master-cyslin-myr, and began using a-unique-talent of seeing "shatterpoints", or faultlines in the-force that could affect the-destinies of certain-individuals, and indeed-the-galaxy itself.
i - the-phantom-menace, where episode expressed doubt regarding qui-gon-jinn's-conclusion about darth-maul being a-sith-lord, but nonetheless assured the-council that the-council full resources will be utilized to verify the-theory that the-sith could have returned.
in star-wars: episode-ii---attack of the-clones, young-anakin-skywalker (who jinn believed to be the prophesied chosen one) led a-party of 200-jedi on a-mission to rescue obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala from separatist-captivity on geonosis, where young-anakin-skywalker (who jinn believed to be the prophesied chosen one) killed the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett in the-battle that followed.
during the-clone-wars, young-anakin-skywalker (who jinn believed to be the prophesied chosen one) served the-republic as an-overseer of the-war-effort and advisor to supreme-chancellor-palpatine, as well as taking part in conflicts such as the-battles of malastare and felucia.
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith, upon being informed by anakin that palpatine was the-sith lord darth sidious
the-rise of skywalker, windu appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-palpatine.
during count-dooku of serenno training under yoda, count-dooku of serenno proved count-dooku of serenno to be both strong with the-force and a-master-duelist, regarded by many as one of the best in the-jedi-order.
upon becoming a-jedi-master later fell to the-dark-side and became the-sith-lord-darth-tyranus, darth-sidious'-second-apprentice.
dooku served as the-figurehead of the-separatist-alliance throughout the-clone-wars, until meeting dooku demise at the-hands of anakin-skywalker in star-wars:
jinn was both the-jedi to discover the-sith's-return after more than a-millennium, upon being attacked by darth-maul during a-mission to protect queen-padmé-amidala of naboo, and the-one to find the-ability of becoming a-force-spirit after death, though he wasn't capable of having a-physical-body.
following he death at darth-maul's-hands, jinn guided both-yoda and obi-wan to the-ability of becoming a-physical-force-spirit after death.
the-rise of skywalker,
the-rise of skywalker appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other past the-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-emperor-palpatine.
obi-wan-kenobi ====
obi-wan-kenobi ===
was a-human-male-jedi-master who trained anakin-skywalker, at the-behest of obi-wan-kenobi ====
deceased-master-qui-gon-jinn, and later obi-wan-kenobi ====
son-luke-skywalker, making obi-wan-kenobi ====
having fought in the-clone-wars, obi-wan proved obi-wan an-adept-strategist, duelist, and spy, as obi-wan leadership style heavily favours subterfuge and misdirection while commanding clone-troopers, or wielding the-force.
due to obi-wan-charisma and persuasion skills, obi-wan became known as 'the-negotiator' during the-clone-wars.
obi-wan best exemplifies the-jedi-code:
as one of the-few-survivors of order 66 following the-galactic-republic's-transformation into the-galactic-empire, obi-wan hid on the-desert-planet-tatooine, watching over vader's-son luke, knowing that obi-wan would one day grow to become a-jedi and defeat vader.
obi-wan briefly mentored luke in the-jedi-arts, before meeting obi-wan demise at the-hands of obi-wan former apprentice aboard the-death-star, though obi-wan continued guiding luke as a-force-spirit.
in star-wars: the force awakens, obi-wan-voice can briefly be heard just after rey's-force-vision when obi-wan came into contact with anakin's-lightsaber.
the-rise of skywalker, obi-wan appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-emperor-palpatine.
anakin-skywalker ====
anakin-skywalker was a-human-male-jedi-knight-master, one of the-main-protagonists of the-prequel-trilogy, and the-primary-antagonist of the-original-trilogy.
anakin-skywalker is the chosen one, being born of the-force.
anakin-skywalker was apprenticed to obi-wan-kenobi and proved to be a-very-gifted-duelist and force-user, being appointed to the-jedi-high-council at the-age of 22.
he secretly married padmé-amidala at the-onset of the-clone-wars and has two-children, luke-skywalker and leia-organa.
he was eventually seduced to the-dark-side by the-sith-lord, darth-sidious (emperor-palpatine), and became sith-lord, darth-vader, serving the-galactic-empire.
vader was eventually redeemed by vader son in return of the-jedi and gave his-son own life to save luke, killing palpatine and fulfilling the-prophecy of the chosen one.
the rise of skywalker, anakin appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-palpatine.
to coruscant to train as a-jedi.
she eventually became the-padawan-learner of anakin-skywalker during the-clone-wars.
among many-campaigns, ahsoka found ahsoka advising rebels on the-planet-onderon, including steela-and-saw-gerrera, in these-rebels fight against the-confederacy.
ahsoka was accused of bombing the-hangar at the-jedi-temple on coruscant before clearing ahsoka name with anakin's-help.
however, the-jedi-council's-response during the-ordeal soured ahsoka-faith in the-order, and ahsoka left the-order to forge ahsoka own path in the-galaxy.
she briefly returned in the-service of the-republic during the-final-days of the-clone-wars, when she led part of the-501st-clone-legion in the-siege of mandalore to capture the-former-sith-lord-darth-maul, who attempted to warn she that anakin would soon fall to the-dark-side.
shortly after capturing maul, ahsoka was betrayed by she clone-troopers as part of order 66, but she managed to escape alongside clone-captain-rex (whose-control-chip she removed).
years later, ahsoka served the-nascent-rebel-alliance as the-spymaster and head of ahsoka intelligence network, directing operations behind the-codename-fulcrum.
the rise of skywalker, ahsoka appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-emperor-palpatine.
after the-events of order 66 and failing to save his-master's-life, his went into hiding on the-planet-bracca where his worked as a-scrapyard-rigger.
while scrapping a-freighter, an-accident forced cal to reveal an-accident force abilities to save a-co-worker, exposing an-accident to the-empire and the-inquisitorius.
cere-junda was a-human-female-jedi-knight who went into hiding following order 66.
following the-clone-wars and the-start of cere-junda
prior to the-purge, junda also mentored a-padawan named trilla siduri, who later fell to the-dark-side and became an-inquisitor known as the-second-sister.
as a-survivor of order 66, jarrus was forced to break certain-jedi-traditions to avoid being detected by imperial-forces that continued certain-jedi-traditions mission to eliminate any-jedi on sight, such as eschewing traditional-jedi-robes or occasionally using a-blaster, a-weapon typically shunned by jedi.
although he lost he master-depa-bilaba to order 66 before he could ascend the-ranks of the-jedi-order, he was tasked with training the-young-force-sensitive-ezra-bridger throughout he-eventual-service to the-larger-rebellion.
he was known as caleb-dume before order 66, and changed he name to avoid detection.
the-rise of skywalker, the-rise of skywalker appears as a-disembodied-voice alongside other-past-jedi, empowering rey to face a-rejuvenated-emperor-palpatine.
ezra bridger ==== was a-human-male-jedi-padawan who was born on the-planet-lothal on the-same-day the-galactic-empire was established.
he could be during a-rescue-operation, they recruited bridger, who began training he in the-ways of the-jedi under jarrus, himself still-a-jedi-padawan.
bridger was not well skilled in lightsaber-duels against inquisitors and darth-vader, but later discovered bridger unique ability to use the-force to-control-and-command-animals, a-skill that proved more useful several times during bridger service in the-rebellion.
bridger later went missing in action during the-battle to liberate lothal from imperial-occupation, where bridger successfully defeated grand-admiral-thrawn, regarded by many as the-empire's-best-tactician.
luke-skywalker ====
luke-skywalker ===
as the-last-padawan of obi-wan-kenobi, luke-skywalker ==== became an-important-figure in the-rebel-alliance's-struggle against the-galactic-empire.
luke was heir to a-family deeply rooted in the-force, being the-twin-brother of rebellion-leader-princess-leia-organa of the-planet-alderaan, the-son of former-queen of naboo and republic-senator-padmé-amidala and jedi turned sith-lord-darth-vader (anakin-skywalker), and the-maternal-uncle of ben-solo.
after redeeming his-father from the-dark-side of the-force, who died killing his-master and the-last-sith, emperor-palpatine-/-darth-sidious, in order to save luke, his-set out to train a-new-generation of jedi to rebuild the-order, only to have a-new-generation of jedi wiped out by supreme-leader-snoke, a-puppet created by a-revived-palpatine, who also turned ben to the-dark-side, adopting the-kylo-ren-persona.
skywalker then spent the-rest of skywalker life in exile on ahch-to, the-original-headquarters of the-jedi-order, blaming skywalker for ben's-turn and the destruction of the-jedi-order, until skywalker was found by rey, the-last-jedi and the-secret-granddaughter of palpatine, whom skywalker reluctantly trained in the-jedi-arts.
shortly after, skywalker gave his-life to distract kylo-ren, now-supreme-leader of the-first-order, on the-planet-crait via a-force-projection, allowing the-resistance to escape.
when rey learned of rey lineage and exiled rey on ahch-to out of fear of turning to the-dark-side, luke appeared before rey as a-force-spirit and encouraged rey to face palpatine.
along with the-spirits of other-past-jedi, palpatine then empowered rey during rey final confrontation with palpatine, which marked the-definitive-defeat of the-sith, and later watched from afar alongside palpatine sister's spirit (who had died redeeming kylo-ren)
as rey renounced rey lineage, becoming a-skywalker instead.
uncle's new generation of jedi, ben trained under ben solo ====, but was eventually seduced to the-dark-side by supreme-leader-snoke, a-puppet created by a-revived-emperor-palpatine-/-darth-sidious, the-last-sith, and sought to become a-sith-lord, as powerful as ben solo ====
late-grandfather, darth-vader (anakin-skywalker).
following the-destruction of luke's-new-jedi-order, ben adopted the-kylo-ren-persona and became a-commander within the-first-order, as well as the-leader of the-knights of ren, an-organization of fellow-force-wielders.
he later killed he father when he unsuccessfully tried to redeem his-father, and formed a-unique-connection with rey, the-last-jedi and palpatine's-secret-granddaughter, called a "dyad in the-force".
after killing snoke, ren took over as supreme-leader of the-first-order, until ultimately being redeemed by ren mother, who died in the-process, and helping rey face palpatine, giving ren own-life to save hers.
rey was a-human-female-jedi-padawan and the-protagonist of the-sequel-trilogy.
rey was the-illegitimate-granddaughter of emperor-palpatine-/-darth-sidious, the-last-surviving-sith, and was born in the-years following the-galactic-empire's-defeat.
abandoned on the-desert-planet of jakku at a-young-age by rey-parents in order to keep rey safe, rey became involved in the-conflict between the-resistance and the-first-order, and formed a-unique-connection with kylo-ren, called a "dyad in the-force".
rey was briefly trained by luke-skywalker and, following luke-skywalker death, continued rey jedi training under the-guidance of luke-skywalker sister and resistance-leader-leia-organa, as well as the-ancient-jedi-texts.
rey eventually learned of rey lineage and, with the-help of a-redeemed-kylo-ren and the-spirits of past-jedi, faced a-revived-palpatine, killing kylo-ren and ending the-sith-order once and for all.
a’sharad-hett was taught under ki-a-mundi, and became a-survivor of order 66.
shortly after the-rise of the-empire, a’sharad-hett fell to the-dark-side.
a’sharad-hett started a-new-sith-empire 130 years after the-fall of darth-vader and darth-sidious.
a-dark-side adept is someone with the-power to use the-dark-side of the-force outside of the-traditions of the-jedi or the-sith.
they were often steeped in the-lore of the-dark-side and opposed to those who used the-light-side, such as jedi.
most notably, anakin-skywalker's-padawan ahsoka-tano left the-jedi-order, and continued to wield the-force, anakin-skywalker's-padawan ahsoka-tano never affiliated or created any the-force sensitive organization.
followers to not give in to feelings of anger toward other-lifeforms, which would help its-followers resist fear and prevent its-followers from falling to the-dark-side of the-force.
in master & apprentice, set seven years before the-phantom-menace and after the-events of dark-temple, the-jedi-council includes yoda, mace-windu, depa-billaba, poli-dapatian (who is in the-process of retiring), eeth-koth, and saesee-tiin.
dealt with the-galactic-senate and the-republic-diplomatic-corps in order to help bring diplomatic-resolutions to conflicts and end political-standoffs.
the-"first-face" of the-republic presented to worlds interested in joining the-republic, council of reconciliation ====
initiation is the-first-part of jedi-training; they are mentored by jedi-masters in rudimentary-control over the-force and basic-self-defense-techniques.
this is why yoda initially denied both-anakin and luke-skywalker for being "too old for training".
younglings were portrayed training under jedi-master-yoda in a-scene on attack of the-clones and hiding during the-assault on the-jedi-temple in revenge of the-sith.
the-“young-jedi”-story-arc and the-episode-“path of the-jedi” explored the-jedi tradition called "the gathering," where initiates traveled to the-"crystal-caves" to harvest kyber-crystals, which they would use to build they first-lightsabers.
the-force spoke to each of the-younglings through each of the-younglings crystals.
in return of the-jedi, master-yoda gives master-yoda apprentice, luke-skywalker,
the-trial of confronting darth-vader for a-second-time
occasionally, performing an-extraordinary-(usually-heroic)-act can earn a-padawan-learner-jedi-status, such as when obi-wan-kenobi defeats the-sith-lord, darth-maul.
by the-time of the-skywalker-saga-films, distinct-"battle-classes" were not necessary as the-republic had not seen war in over-a-thousand-years, and the-title of knight was simply a-rank once again.
upon completion of vocational-or-postgraduate-education, a-jedi-knight becomes a-jedi-master after successfully training several-padawan-learners to a-jedi-knight status, such as when obi-wan-kenobi became a-jedi-master after obi-wan-kenobi successfully trained anakin-skywalker to the-point where obi-wan-kenobi was able to complete the-trials and become a-jedi-knight.
before the-great-jedi-purge, numerous-divisions existed across the-whole of the-order, but most-personnel are represented within the-three-order-divisions: the-order of the-guardian, the-order of the-consular, or order of the-sentinel.
in addition to their-specialization, in times of war, the-high-council could demand that the-members of the-order assume military ranks in order to defend the-republic.
yoda and luke-skywalker were jedi-grandmasters.
a-title given to those given commanding-roles in the-grand-army of the-republic during the-clone-wars.
a-title given to those given commanding-roles in the-grand-army of the-republic during the-clone-wars was given to jedi-general under the-leadership of jedi-knights and jedi-masters with jedi-knights and jedi-masters roles as jedi-generals in the-grand-army of the-republic the-republic during the-clone-wars.
: focused on further-mastery of the-force and the-sharpening of mental-faculties, and wielded a-lightsaber only for self-defense.
some-consulars worked closely with the-republic-bureaucrats to assist in greeting unaligned-governments and helping the-republic-bureaucrats join the-republic and given the-authority to hammer out a-compromise or treaty during tense-negotiations, backed by the-full-support of the-senate-and-jedi-order.
some-consulars joined the-circle of jedi-healers (headquartered out of the-coruscant-temple's-halls of healing) and focused on the-medical-and-humanitarian-aspects of the-force, manipulating the-force to perform the-art of healing.
jedi-jedi specifically predisposed to receive visions through the-force were known as "seers", maintaining and updating the-order's-holocrons; the most perceptive of these-jedi (such as yoda) were known as prophets and foretold the-future of the-galaxy.
within the-star-wars-universe, the-jedi are usually portrayed wearing simple-robes and carrying specialized-field-gear for the-jedi missions.
a-jedi's-lightsabers emit cool-colors, usually-blue-or-green-blades (sometimes yellow, or purple, as seen in the-case of mace-windu), while the-sith emit warm-colors (red).
====-eta-2-actis-jedi-interceptors first appeared in revenge of the-sith.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones and star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
in attack of the-clones, obi-wan-kenobi travels via jedi-starfighter to kamino to investigate the-attempted-assassination of padmé-amidala; obi-wan-kenobi also flies a jedi-starfighter to geonosis in an-attempt to track down the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett.
obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker (hayden-christensen)
fly updated-jedi-starfighters (called jedi interceptors) in the-opening-sequence of revenge of the-sith.
(ian-mcdiarmid) order 66.the-jedi-starfighter's-triangular-shape in attack of the-clones stems from the-shape of imperial-star-destroyers in the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
the-starfighter seen in revenge of the-sith is a-cross between the-previous-film's-vessel and the-empire's-tie-fighters from the-original-trilogy.
the-starfighter in the-revenge of the-sith is called a jedi interceptor starfighter.
among these were sith-artifacts, considered by the-jedi-order to be the-most-dangerous-artifacts in the-galaxy, that were accessible only to those able to control the-dark-side of the-force.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones bear a-startling-resemblance to the-long-room of the-trinity-college-library in dublin.
so that roaming the-galaxy and exploring new-worlds could be achieved while still teaching traditional-doctrine.
after the-dissolution of the-order during the-great-jedi-purge, all-orthodox-temples and academies were routed and burned in order to prevent any-more-jedi from learning the-secrets of the-force.
after grand-master-luke-skywalker's-new-order became a-single-class of twelve-students including grand-master-luke-skywalker's-new-order nephew ben solo, it was reduced to only-himself when himself-nephew turned to the-darkside and became kylo-ren.
as the-chief-administrative-headquarters, jedi-temple === served the-order in three-capacities: a-monastery and library for the-jedi seeking enlightenment and to reflect on the-will of the-force; an-academy-and-training-center for the-jedi younglings and padawans who endeavored to join the-ranks of the-jedi knights; and government, in which the-masters of the-jedi high council guided the-order's direction.
it was originally built atop an-old-"dark-side-nexus"-shrine during the-birth of the-republic, so as to be symbolic to the-coruscant-people that the-tyrannical-rule of the-sith was over.
in revenge of the-sith, the-jedi-temple is attacked by clone-troopers of the-501st-legion, led by the-newly-christened-darth-vader, who butchered the-jedi within and set the-jedi-temple alight.
the-jedi-temple would serve as sidious'-residence for over-two-decades until the-emperor-death at the-battle of endor.
the-jedi-temple is visible in the-celebrations on coruscant at the-end of return of the-jedi.
after the-destruction of the-sith, luke skywalker—the last of the-jedi—recovered-fragments of a-force-sensitive-tree that was once located at the-heart of the-jedi temple.
legends-depiction of the-jedi ==
the-je'daii-order, precursors to the-modern-jedi, studied and used both-the-light-and-dark-sides of the-force equally.
in novels set after the-events of the-film-series, luke-skywalker re-established the-jedi-high-council as part of his-new-jedi-order.
following the-war with the-yuuzhan-vong, jedi-jedi withdrew jedi-support from any-one-political-entity and relocated to ossus, where luke had a-full-jedi-council re-established.
in novels set after the-events of the-original-film-trilogy, his-new-jedi-order was the-restored-and-reformed-jedi-organization, in the-wake of the-great-jedi-purge and subsequent-fall of the-galactic-empire.
within the-expanded-universe, the-new-jedi-order indicates that the-jedi-temple on coruscant is no longer standing but the-jedi-temple on coruscant is rebuilt as a-gift to all-jedi for their-services and achievements during the-yuuzhan-vong-invasion.
the-jedi-temple on coruscant is in the-form of a-massive-pyramid made from stone and transparisteel that is designed to fit into the-new-look of coruscant, though internally the-jedi-temple on coruscant is identical to the-design seen in revenge of the-sith.
in star-wars and philosophy, william-stephens compares the-jedi to stoicism:
references ==
the-phantom-menace (1999), and me-8d9 is an-"ancient-protocol-droid of unknown-manufacture" that resides and works as a-translator at maz-kanata's-castle on takodana in star-wars:
the-force awakens (2015).
during the-battle of naboo, battle-droids were controlled from a-central-command-computer as a-cost-saving-measure.
the-b2-super-battle-droid, introduced in the-battle of geonosis, was designed by the-techno-union and manufactured by baktoid as an-improvement of the-original-b1-model.
heavily armored and capable of limited-independent-thought, the-b2-super-battle-droid, introduced in the-battle of geonosis features an-integrated-dual-laser-cannon in the-b2-super-battle-droid, introduced in the-battle of geonosis right arm.
probe-droids first appear in the empire strikes back as the-empire deploys thousands of probe-droids to locate the-hidden-rebel-base.
probe-droids are described as traveling via hyperdrive-equipped-pods to almost anywhere in the-galaxy in order to search for probe-droids target.
interrogation-droids utilize a-variety of devices, chemicals and techniques to exploit a-prisoner's-weaknesses in order to extract information from interrogation-droids.
references == ==
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983) and reprised the-roles in the-sequel-trilogy-films
the-force awakens (2015),
star-wars: the-last-jedi (2017) and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (2019).
james-earl-jones, david-prowse and sebastian-shaw collectively portrayed anakin-skywalker-/-darth-vader, and alec-guinness portrayed obi-wan-kenobi in the-original-films.
jake-lloyd and hayden-christensen portray a-younger-version of anakin in the-first-and-next-two-installments of the-prequels and ewan mcgregor stars in all three, star wars:
episode i - the-phantom-menace (1999),
episode-ii---attack of the-clones (2002) and star-wars:
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith (2005) as a-younger-obi-wan-kenobi, being top billed in the-later-two-films.
daisy-ridley plays rey and adam-driver plays kylo-ren in the-sequel-films (2015—19).
also starring in the-franchise include, felicity-jones who plays jyn-erso in rogue one (2016) and alden-ehrenheich as han-solo in solo:
the-rise of skywalker in 2019, daniels is credited with the-most-acting-appearances as the-same-character, having played c-3po in all-nine-films of the skywalker saga, as well as the anthology film rogue-one, the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series in 2008 and 2003, and a guest appearance in the-first-season of rebels.
daniels also appeared in solo, but as a-different-character named "tak", as well as a character named "dannl faytonni" in attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, the latter being alongside c-3po.
in 2008, an-animated-film entitled star wars: the-clone-wars was released.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
despite the-decanonization, the-television-films do retain many-major-cast-members from the-original-trilogy reprising the-television-films roles; the-holiday-special featured most of the-cast from the-original-film, while the-ewok-prequel-films featured warwick-davis reprising his-role as wicket, who originated in return of the-jedi.
c-kevin-pollack, ken-grantham, mark-dodson and rick-cimino are credited as providing ewok-voices for the-battle for endor, although which-ewok they voice is not stated.
the-rise of skywalker from footage originally shot for star-wars:
the-force awakens, but cut from the-film.
g ewan-mcgregor's-voice can be heard saying the-newly-recorded-dialogue "these are your-final-steps, rey, rise and take these" while archive-recordings of alec-guinness saying "afraid" were cut to say "rey", both occurring when rey says "be with me", and voices of past-jedi are heard.
references ==
attack of the clones star wars episode iii: revenge of the-sith
the-empire strikes back
return of the-jedi-star-wars episode vii:
the-force awakens star-wars-episode-viii:
the-rise of skywalker-star-wars:
the-series is set in the-fictional-star-wars-galaxy during the-three-year-interim between episode-ii-–-attack of the-clones and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (the-same-time-period as the-previous-2003-clone-wars-series).
during the-course of the-series, 133-episodes of star-wars: the-clone-wars were released over seven-seasons, between october 3, 2008, and may 4, 2020.
on march 11, 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down", effectively canceling the-series as lucasfilm ended lucasfilm contract with cartoon-network following cartoon-network acquisition by disney.
season 6, along with the-other-seasons and the-feature-film, were made available on netflix on march 7, 2014.in july 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes on disney+.
season 1 depicted the-attempts of the-republic and the-separatists to gain the-allegiance of many-planets and moons.
meanwhile, the-jedi lead the-republic-forces in an-assault on the-primary-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes to be released on disney+
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul: son of dathomir ====
following the-events of the-season-5-episode "the-lawless".
the-story follows vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
the-arc takes place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-arc also deals with anakin's-feelings after ahsoka left the-jedi-order.
the-story reels for this-four-episode-arc were screened on april 17, 2015, at star-wars-celebration-anaheim, and were released on the-official-star-wars-website on april 29, 2015.
the-clone-wars (film) ==
references ==
the-clone-wars at imdb-list of star-wars:
the-clone-wars are a-series of fictional-conflicts in the-star-wars-franchise by george-lucas.
though mentioned briefly in the-first-star-wars-film (a-new-hope, 1977), the-war itself was not depicted until attack of the-clones (2002) and revenge of the-sith (2005).
the-clone-wars are also the-setting for three-eponymous-projects:
lucas used the-clone-wars-narrative to answer questions about the-original-trilogy, such as how the-empire originated and how anakin-skywalker became darth-vader.
the-political-and-military-events of the-clone-wars draw inspiration from real-world-conflicts and historical-events, such as the-french-revolution-and-napoleonic-wars, world-war-ii and the-american-civil-war.
the-first-reference to the-clone-wars is in star-wars-creator-george-lucas'-third-draft of the-first-film, which mentions the-grizzled-cyborg-general-kenobi's-"diary of the-clone-wars".
the-wars were mentioned twice briefly in the-final-version of the-film, referring to obi-wan-kenobi as a-general who served leia-organa's-father during the-conflict.
leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war.
lucas was more guarded about the-details of the-clone-wars than any-other-element of star-wars, even making them off-limits to licensed-products and books.
that's the-issue i've been exploring: how did the-republic turn into the-empire? ...
the-clone-forces shown at the-conclusion of attack of the-clones comprised the-largest-digital-army created for a-film at that-point.
lucas proposed to concept artists that revenge of the-sith would open with a-montage of seven-battles on seven-planets.
the-clone-wars was first depicted in attack of the-clones, the-release of which brought an-end to lucas's-embargo on licensed-material set during the-era.
attack of the-clones, set at the-beginning of the-wars, opens with the-galactic-republic's-rising-concern about the-secession of thousands of star-systems to the-confederacy of independent-systems, which is publicly led by count-dooku.
investigating two-attempted-assassinations of senator-padmé-amidala, obi-wan-kenobi discovers dooku used the-identity of a-dead-jedi-master to secretly arrange the-creation of a-massive-clone-army on the-galactic-republic's's behalf.
yoda leads a-massive-clone-army on the-republic's-behalf to rescue obi-wan, padmé, and anakin-skywalker from the-separatists on geonosis, and the first battle of the war ensues.
in the-final-scene of the-movie, anakin and padmé get married in secret, in violation of anakin's jedi vows.
revenge of the-sith shows the-waning-days of the-three-year-clone-wars, in which clone soldiers and their-jedi-generals have fought against the-separatist-droid-army.
after killing dooku and rescuing palpatine from the-separatists during their-assault on coruscant, anakin learns padmé is pregnant.
anakin becomes troubled by visions of her-death in childbirth, and palpatine lures anakin to the-dark-side of the-force by promising to teach anakin how to prevent her-premature-demise.
meanwhile, yoda is dispatched to kashyyyk to stave off a-separatist-invasion, and obi-wan-kenobi is dispatched to utapau where obi-wan-kenobi kills general-grievous.
anakin discovers palpatine is the-elusive-sith-lord-darth-sidious, but anakin defends anakin against mace-windu because anakin needs palpatine's knowledge to save padmé.
after mace-windumace-windu, palpatine dubs anakin palpatine
palpatine orders the-clone-troopers to execute order 66, and clones kill their-jedi-generals across the-galaxy.
palpatine then dispatches vader to kill the-separatist-leaders on mustafar and to issue a-"shutdown-command" to the-separatist-leaders droid-army.
with the-separatist-leaders demise, palpatine declares an-end to the-clone-wars and the-republic's-reformation into the-galactic-empire.
the-2d-animated-clone-wars-series (2003–2005) depicts several-clone-wars-battles and was meant to generate interest in revenge of the-sith.
the-2d-animated-clone-wars-series (2003–2005) also depicts the-prelude to the-opening-battle of revenge of the-sith-and-palpatine's-capture by general-grievous.
the-film, released in 2008, introduces ahsoka-tano as anakin's-apprentice and depicts the-republic and the-separatists battling and attempting to gain permission to travel through jabba the-hutt's-territory.
the-television-series that followed (2008–2014, 2020) is likewise set against the-backdrop of the-clone-wars, with the-series-finale taking place at the-same-time as the-climax of revenge of the-sith.
the-television-series that followed (2008–2014, 2020) offers additional-details about the-clone-army's-creation, establishes each of the-clones as distinct-characters, depicts numerous-confrontations and developments from the-conflict, and portrays the-interaction between the-clone-troopers and their-jedi-commanders.
for example, the-series reveals that each-clone has an-"inhibitor-chip" in his-body that makes most of each-clone obey order 66.
the-2008-novelization of the-clone-wars by karen-traviss begins a-series of five-novels by traviss and karen-miller published by del-rey-books between 2008 and 2010.
traviss returned to write the-clone-wars: no-prisoners (2009), in which ahsoka is temporarily assigned to captain-rex.
a-rogue-one-novel (2016) is set during the-clone-wars and the-subsequent-couple of years.
lucasarts also produced video-games like republic-commando and the-clone-wars that depict the-clone-wars.
comparisons have been made between the-political-aspects of the-clone-wars and the-events leading up to world-war-ii.
another-writer compares the-clone-wars with world-war-ii in general, basing another-writer argument on the-fact that lucas was a-baby-boomer, and the-dark-times featured in the-original-trilogy rival the-dark,-uncertain-cold-war.
referring to lucas's-statements that the-conflict in star-wars was inspired by the-cultural-backdrop of the-vietnam-war, journalist-chris-taylor said the-clone-wars are a-parallel to world-war-ii.
anne-lancashire from the-university of toronto also points out some-similar-nomenclature between the-clone-wars and the-american-civil-war.
several-publications compared the-political-context of the-clone-wars to the-american-civil-war.
star-wars-producer-rick-mccallum corroborated that the-clone-wars was developed before the-iraq-war, adding that lucas "is a-product of vietnam".
the-author of how star-wars conquered the-universe, chris-taylor, calls the-clone-wars "a major part of star-wars lore".
in its-attempt to keep its-star-wars-line of toys active after return of the-jedi (1983), kenner devised a-storyline that would involve the-return of an-exiled-"genetic-terrorist" and kenner clone warriors.
timothy-zahn said the-clones'-unexpected-appearance fighting for "the-good-guys" in attack of the-clones'—despite-many-years of fan-speculation that the-clones' were an-invading-force—was "wonderfully blindsid[ing]".
after seeing the-cgi-clone-wars-television-show, timothy-zahn was grateful that lucasfilm rejected timothy-zahn initial-heir to the-empire-draft, which involved an-insane-clone of obi-wan created during the-conflict.
references =
the-star-wars-sequel-trilogy consists of episodes vii through ix, chronologically following the-prequel-trilogy (episodes i–iii; 1999–2005) and the-original-trilogy (episodes iv–vi; 1977–1983), serving as the-final-act of the-"skywalker-saga".
the-final-installment, the-rise of skywalker, was released on december 20, 2019.
the-trilogy follows a-19-year-old-girl named rey, and the-plight of the-resistance against the-first-order, which has risen from the-fallen-galactic-empire.
rey learns the-ways of the-force under luke-skywalker and leia-organa while searching for her-parents (who mysteriously abandoned her as a-child), and confronts kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin-skywalker—who has fallen to the-dark-side.
a-time-magazine-story in march 1978, quoting lucas, stated there would be ten-star-wars-films after the-empire strikes back.
by the-time of episode-v: the-empire strikes back's release, lucas had written story-treatments for all-nine-star-wars-episodes.
episode-iii would explain the-rise of darth-vader.
episode-iii had already seen luke decide to become a-the-jedi and
episode-vi was to feature leia as an-isolated-monarch, han's-death, and luke showing down with vader before exiling vader.
luke and leia were not related.
episode-viii was to be the-first-part of a-trilogy continuing the-story of luke as a-jedi.
i've just gone through that with return of the-jedi, and what seems like a-great-idea when it's described in three-sentences
author-dale-pollock said these-sequel-trilogy-drafts would "involve luke-skywalker in author-dale-pollock 30s and 40s" and that they would be "the-three-most-exciting-stories ...
according to gary-kurtz, details of elements from the-discarded-sequel-trilogy which were incorporated into return of the-jedi include:
luke-skywalker becomes a-full-fledged-jedi-knight.
the-emperor would first appear and luke would confront the-emperor.
ideas which seem to have been used in disney's-sequel-trilogy include: episode-vii would begin 20–40 years after the-end of return of the-jedi (lucas in 1980 and 1982).
r2-d2 and c-3po would be the-only-characters to appear in all-nine-films (per lucas in 1980, 1981, and 1983).
(lucas in 1983) stated in 1980 that "what happens to luke ... is much more ethereal.
hamill said in 1983 that if hamill character were to return again, it would be "on another-plane of existence, or not-the-same-character. "
include: disney's-sequel trilogy would deal with the-rebuilding of the-republic (lucas in 1980).
luke would have a-romantic-relationship with a-female-partner (lucas in 1988).timothy-zahn, who wrote the-legends-non-canonical-thrawn-trilogy of novels, was interviewed about disney's-sequel-trilogy after disney's-sequel-trilogy development by disney was announced in 2012.
luke confirmed that it was never meant to be based on luke thrawn trilogy nor the-rest of the-expanded-universe, and said that luke had been briefed years before on lucas's-plans for the-sequels:
i really don't have any-notion other than, 'gee, it would be interesting to do luke-skywalker later on.'
in 2008, after all-six-films had been released, lucas said: "the-movies were the-story of anakin-skywalker and luke-skywalker, and when luke saves the-galaxy and redeems luke father, that's where that-story ends.
mark-hamill and carrie-fisher agreed, as did harrison-ford after being promised that han-solo would be given meaningful-closure.
in at-least-one-conception, skylar was the-son of han-solo and leia-organa, and ultimately fell to the-dark-side of the-force (these-plot-developments were retained for the-backstory of ben-solo/kylo-ren in the-final-iteration).
luke would have started off reluctant to train the-female-padawan, but eventually have a-change of heart and agree to train luke.
lucas planned for luke to die in episode-viii.
conversely, in 2018, hamill said that lucas-original-vision for the-ending of episode-ix was to have luke die then instead of making a-simple-cameo, leaving luke die sister leia as a-jedi.
luke was going to appear with dialogue in the-first-film.
one of the-antagonists would be a-character named darth talon (later revealed to be the-female-sith-lord from the-star-wars: legacy-comic-book-series), who served a-powerful-master (codenamed "uber" by the-production-team) and was responsible (in some-versions of the-story) for turning the-son of han and leia to the-dark-side of the-force.
talon's-role in the-story was eventually subsumed into the-role of kylo-ren, and "uber" became supreme-leader-snoke.
the-trilogy would start a few years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
according to lucas, "we establish pretty quickly that there's this-underworld, there are these-offshoot-stormtroopers who started their-own-planets, and that luke is trying to restart the-jedithe-jedi."
darth-maul would return with robotic-legs (as had been established in star-wars: the-clone-wars) and train the-female-darth-talon as darth-maul apprentice.
" maul would become "the-godfather of crime in the-universe because, as the-empire falls, he takes over.
leia is trying to rebuild the-republic and "get the-republic under control from the-gangsters."
luke "puts the-word out, so out of 100,000-jedi, maybe 50 or 100 are left.
the-jedi have to grow again from scratch, so luke has to find two- and three-year-olds, and train
by the-end of the-trilogy, luke would have rebuilt much of the-jedi, and we would have the-renewal of the-new-republic, with leia, senator-organa, becoming the-supreme-chancellor in charge of everything.
so luke ended up being the chosen one. "
, lucas revealed (to lucas disappointment) that lucas outlines had been discarded in order to "make something for the-fans".
as announced by lucasfilm, the-sequel-trilogy meant the-end of most of the-existing-expanded-universe, so as to give "maximum-creative-freedom to the-filmmakers and also preserve an-element of surprise and discovery for the-audience".
the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015, and introduces the-19-year-old-orphan, rey, who is drawn into the-conflict between the-resistance and the-first-order, a-ruthless-military-faction commanded by kylo-ren—the-son of leia-organa and han-solo.
in the-last-jedi, released on december 15, 2017, rey is trained by luke-skywalker, the-last-living-jedi, while again facing ren and the-first-order.
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019, and features the-conclusion of the-age-old-conflict between the-jedi and sith, with rey confronting the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
the-force awakens ===
about 30 years after the-destruction of the-second-death-star, skywalker has vanished.
the-remnants of the-empire have become the-first-order, which seeks to destroy luke and the-new-republic.
the-first-order, which seeks to destroy luke and the-new-republic is opposed by the-resistance, led by general-leia-organa.
on the-planet jakku, resistance-pilot-poe-dameron obtains a-map to luke's-location, but resistance-pilot-poe-dameron is captured by first-order-commander-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo.
rey and bb-8 team up with a-defecting-stormtrooper, finn, along with han-solo and chewbacca, to deliver a-map to the-resistance.
in october, it was announced that writing-duties would be taken over by j.-j.-abrams and lawrence-kasdan, co-writer of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
in the-us, in the-us received a-pg-13-rating "for sci-fi-action-violence" and an-m-rating in australia, the-second-star-wars-film to receive that-classification after episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
the-last-jedi ===
after finding luke-skywalker in self-imposed-exile, rey attempts to convince him to teach rey the-ways of the-force.
rey also seeks answers about rey past and the-conflict between luke-and-luke-nephew-ben-solo (now-kylo-ren).
unbeknownst to luke, rey starts using the-force to communicate with kylo.
meanwhile, leia leads the-outnumbered-resistance as the-outnumbered-resistance are pursued by the-first-order, led by supreme-leader-snoke.
rey leaves luke in an-attempt to redeem kylo and achieve peace.
after kylo kills snoke, rey is forced to choose between ruling the-galaxy with rey, or helping the-outnumbered-resistance survive.
kennedy announced at the-december-17-london-premiere of the-force awakens that most of the-force cast would return for episode viii.on january 20, 2016
the-rise of skywalker ===
the-rise of skywalker is the-final-film of the skywalker saga, featuring a-climactic-clash between the-resistance and the-first-order, and the-jedi and the-sith.
the-final-film of the-skywalker-saga is set a year following the-last-jedi and depicts the-return of palpatine, who has been secretly controlling the-first-order from the-sith-planet-exegol.
palpatine orders kylo-ren to find and kill rey, who is revealed to be palpatine's granddaughter.
palpatine unveils an-armada of star-destroyers to reclaim the-galaxy.
they eventually locate exegol; rey confronts palpatine, while the-resistance attack palpatine's fleet.
in september 2017, lucasfilm announced that trevorrow had stepped down as director, and a week later, lucasfilm was announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct episode-ix.
on january 10, 2018, disney was reported that john-williams will return to compose and conduct the-music for episode-ix.
the-same-announcement confirmed billy-dee-williams return and that carrie-fisher would posthumously portray leia-organa using unreleased-footage from the force awakens.
on april-12th, at the-2019-star-wars-celebration, the-title for episode-ix was confirmed to be the-rise of skywalker.
the-rise of skywalker-skywalker was released in the-united-states on december 20, 2019.
on the-inspiration for the-first-order formed "from the-ashes of the-empire", j.-j.-abrams spoke of conversations the-writers had about how the-nazis could have escaped to argentina after world-war-ii and "started working together again. "
polygon considers that the-last-jedi's-portrayal of luke-skywalker as a-pacifist-jedi-master reflects the-jedi's-beliefs as being inspired by the-buddhist-religion due to the-character's-inner-conflict towards using a-lightsaber and seeing a-lightsaber as a-weapon of destruction.
the-last-jedi features scenes recalling akira-kurosawa's-rashomon (1950), utilizing the-rashomon-effect when luke tells rey that luke considered murdering luke nephew, ben-solo, due to sensing luke inevitable fall to the-dark-side.
later, kylo recounts luke-perspective, which prompts luke to tell a-third,-combined-perspective of the-event.
the-rise of skywalker depicts kylo having kylo helmet repaired following kylo destruction in the-last-jedi.
while the-helmet obscures vulnerabilities in the force awakens, fractured-form in the-rise of skywalker instead communicates the-fractured-nature of character.
kylo overcomes and kills kylo father in the-force awakens before reconciling with kylo memory of kylo in the-rise of skywalkerskywalker; according to terrio, this-reconciliation represents the-"atonement with the-father"-stage of the-hero's-journey, which the-star-wars-films are heavily patterned on.
rey's-journey-mirrors that of anakin and luke in the-prequel and original-trilogies.
the-final-scene of the-last-jedi depicts servant-children playing with a-toy of luke, with one-boy using the-force to grab a-broom.
a-writer for the-same-website interprets the-end of the-rise of skywalker as seeing rey "bury the-past" and rejecting "any-power her-grandfather held over her" in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
the force awakens and the-last-jedi received a-positive-reception from critics, while the-rise of skywalker-skywalker received mixed-reviews.
fan-criticism has surrounded aspects of the force awakens being too similar to previous-films in the-franchise, and the-last-jedi for subverting conventions of the-franchise without a-compelling-reason.
critical-opinions of the-rise of skywalker-skywalker have been polarizing; while some praised the-rise of skywalker-celebration of the-entire-saga, the-rise of skywalker-tribute to carrie-fisher, and return of many-longtime-characters from the-original-trilogy, many were divided on the-film's-perceived-retconning of the-last-jedi, as well as the-rise of skywalker-heavy-fan-service.
said criticism has been directed at the-consensus that johnson had essentially been given a-blank-slate for the-last-jedi with no-clear-guidelines or direction from lucasfilm, and in doing so either controversially handled or ignored many of j.-j.-abrams-decisions for the force awakens.
for the-rise of skywalker, j.-j.-abrams allegedly chose to further deviate from plot-points raised in the-last-jedi, while attempting to introduce j.-j.-abrams own that were never mentioned or alluded to during the-previous-two-films.
some-critics felt many of the-narrative-choices for the-rise of skywalker had been raised in an-effort to appease dissatisfied-fans.
the-idea of luke-skywalker living on an-island following luke-skywalker failure to stop the-murder of luke-skywalker jedi students and then training an-apprentice who would help luke-skywalker overcome luke-skywalker self-doubt was first pitched by george-lucas in 2013 during creative-meetings between luke-skywalker and lucasfilm as part of story-discussions for episode vii
several-plot-points of the-rise of luke-skywalker were pitched in an-early-2014-story-meeting between lucasfilm-executives (including dave-filoni, pablo-hidalgo, doug-chiang, john-knoll, and kiri-hart) after the-plot of the force awakens had been finalized, including the-notion of leia as a-mentor-figure to rey, leia breaking through to leia son ben-solo (kylo-ren), and the-notion of rey as “the-skywalker” of the-trilogy by metaphor rather than blood-connection.
similarly, abrams hinted that emperor-palpatine being rey's-grandfather was an-early-idea palpatine being rey's-grandfather and lawrence-kasdan had while working on the force awakens, although daisy-ridley later claimed that ideas for rey's-lineage changed throughout filming of the-rise of skywalker.
george-lucas agreed with critics who considered the-force awakens too derivative of the-trilogy.
in 2017, lucas described the-sequel the-last-jedi as "beautifully made".
abrams apologized for how abrams handled chewbacca and leia's-meeting after han-solo's-death, noting that han-solo's-best-friend and widow ignore each other, with leia instead hugging rey (whom leia is meeting for the-first-time).
johnson's-sequel included leia hugging chewbacca at the-end of the-last-jedi as a-way to apologize for the-previous-film-oversight.
abrams intended for bb-8 to help rey search for luke, which johnson changed to r2-d2 (due to being luke's droid, as well as bb-8 belonging to poe and not knowing luke).
additionally, abrams ending featured rey finding luke lifting rocks with the-force, which was changed due to johnson's-plot of luke having disconnected abrams from the-force.
johnson stated johnson saw the-mortis-trilogy of episodes of the-clone-wars, due to a-recommendation from the-animator of the-series dave-filoni, and that it influenced johnson portrayal of the-force in johnson film.
abrams also said that the-boldness of the-last-jedi inspired abrams to be more original on the-rise of skywalker and that the-last-jedi plot did not derail abrams plans for the-film, adding that in response to criticisms of the-force-awakens, johnson advised abrams "not to just do something that you've seen before."
nevertheless, it is the-sequel-trilogy overall, with the-force awakens ranking as the-fourth-highest-grossing-film of all-time.
references ==
the art of star-wars: the-force awakens.
the-art of star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
return of the-jedi and further explored in caravan of courage:
the-battle for endor.
the-series focuses on the-adventures of wicket-w.-warrick and wicket-w.-warrick friends on the-forest-moon of endor before the-events of the-original-star-wars-film and caravan of courage.
the-penultimate-episode has been noted as forming a-link with return of the-jedi, which features the-empire using endor as endor base of operations for the-second-death-star.
widowed-father to kneesaa and asha gives order to the-warriors when the-warriors are fighting against the-duloks.
the-series is a-follow-up (later stated to be a-prequel) to the-two-ewok-films: caravan of courage (1984) and the-battle for endor (1985), which were themselves spin-offs (and prequels) of return of the-jedi.
some-controversy has resulted from ewoks-apparent-mastery of english while appearing not to speak the-language in the-ewok-films or return of the-jedi (which are set some years later).
a-dulok was shown on coruscant in chapter 21 of the-2d-animated-clone-wars (2003).
references ==
for example, enryaku-ji was deliberately built on mount-hiei which was in the-kimon (northeasterly)-direction from kyoto in order to guard the-capital, and similarly kan'ei-ji was built towards that-direction from edo-castle.
references =
in the-original-trilogy, set later in time, in the-original-trilogy is referred to as the-old-republic.
after the-end of the-galactic-empire, the-new-republic was founded.
the-consolidation of the-new-republic is depicted in the-mandalorian as the-consolidation of the-new-republic sought to wipe out remnants of the-imperial-forces, and was eventually destroyed by the-first-order, under supreme-leader-snoke's-direction, in star-wars: the-force awakens.
all-star-wars-chronology takes the-destruction of the-first-death-star during the-battle of yavin, portrayed in the-first-film star-wars:
the-conventional-calendar-era-notation is "bby" ("before the-battle of yavin") and "aby" ("after the-battle of yavin").
according to the-large-body of films and other-fiction that belong to the-star-wars-franchise, the-old-republic was formed 25,000 years before the-events of star-wars:
coruscant became the-capital-planet of the-old-republic, the-galactic-empire, and the-new-republic, and the-entire-surface evolved into one-big-city, with skyscrapers reaching more-than-5,000-levels.
the-republic was made up of several-hundred-thousands of worlds, and each-planet or system had representation in the-republic-senate, which comprised most of the-republic-legislative-branch and the-government itself.
the-republic started off merely as an-economic-and-protective-alliance, mainly among the-core-worlds.
the-republic eventually expanded to the-colonies and other-outlying-worlds and regions, becoming a-superpower rather than an-alliance, and the-republic became the-central-government for the-galaxy.
the-core-worlds such as coruscant and alderaan were notable for the-core-worlds such as coruscant and alderaan prosperity, which was later matched by the-colonies, while the-inner-rim-and-expansion-region were a bit less secure and wealthy; the-mid-rim was an-unsafe-region that saw much of the-fighting-galactic-civil-war on planets such as naboo and kashyyyk, as it was far from the-republic's-military concentrated in the-core.
the-mid-rim was the-most-unsafe-place in the-galaxy, where neither-the-republic nor the-empire ever gained much-de-facto-hold, leading to lawlessness, widespread-violence and crime-syndicates; many-key-battles of the-clone-wars took place here.
as the-republic expanded, the-hutt-space came into contact with the-slave-empire of zygerria.
the-republic and jedi declared war on the-zygerria-empire and won.
the-sith (which formed in the-republic's-early-years) return to the-sith (which formed in the-republic's-early-years) original-strength and invaded malachor.
soon, the-sith became a-second-superpower.
bby, the-republic (now known as the-galactic-republic) reformed and became a-democracy.
bby, the-republic (now known as the-galactic-republic) demilitarised at the-ruusan-reformation, shortly after the-seventh-battle of ruusan.
the-high-republic depicts the-galaxy 200 years before the-phantom-menace.
power-blocs formed out of the-republic, but the-jedi kept order.
the-republic became peaceful but corrupt, and a-core-rim-distrust formed.
after supreme-chancellor-finis-valorum came to power, a-standoff between the-trade-federation and the-republic lead to the-invasion of naboo (32-bby), depicted in star-wars:
the-trade-federation and other-cartels within the-republic desired that the-republic government lack significant-central-military-power so that the-republic government could not enforce any-legal-regulations on the-trade-federation and other-cartels within the-republic business.
dissatisfied with several-problems in the-republic, such as ineffectual-government, heavy-taxes, and perceived-favouritism of the-core-worlds over the-outer-rim-planets, the-confederacy of independent-systems (cis) was formed in 24-bby: several-systems seceded from the-republic and formed a-new-state, thus triggering the-separatist-crisis.
the-cis was headed by former-jedi-master-count-dooku, who gained much-popularity amongst critics of the-republic after his-scathing-raxus-address outlining the-problems of the-republic, leading many-systems to side with his and form the-confederacy.
the-separatists became a-huge-threat to the-republic after some of the-galaxy's-megacorporations allied with the-cis, as some of the-galaxy's-megacorporations allied with the-cis possessed vast-resources and private-armies of battle-droids.
however, a-clone-army had already been created in secret on the-planet-kamino on the-edge of the-galaxy ten years earlier, commissioned without authorisation by master-sifo-dyas, a-former-jedi-perceiving-chaos in the-galaxy.
when it became clear the-confederacy had no-intention of negotiating, the-republic quickly accepted a-clone-army
despite the-high-quality of clone-wars ===-armaments and cloned-troops, the-republic's-war-effort was initially hindered because most of the-major-industrial-companies in the-galaxy had, under the-aegis of the-techno-union, sided with the-confederacy.
eventually, though, the-republic became a-humongous-superpower not only economically but also militarily.
the-rapid-militarization of the-republic during the-clone-wars, overseen by supreme-chancellor-palpatine, had far-reaching-effects.
during the-second-and-middle-year of the-clone-wars however, the-republic defended the-republic from confederate-attacks and retaliated with the-republic own assaults, many of which were successful.
during the-third-and-final-year of the-clone-wars, the-republic won many-offensive-battles in the-mid-rim and pushed the-confederate-forces back to the-mid-rim with the-republic "outer rim sieges" campaign.
fall of the-republic ===
eventually, palpatine gains enough-political-power that palpatine and palpatine office are equal to the-senate.
tension between palpatine and the-jedi grow as the-war progresses.
in time, the-jedi the-jedi believe that palpatine will not surrender palpatine emergency powers and palpatine long-overdue-position by the-end of the-war.
after the-death of separatist-leaders-count-dooku, who was the-head of state, and general-grievous, who was the-commander of the-separatist-army, and the-discovery that palpatine is actually darth-sidious, the-sith-lord behind the-war, the-jedi activate the-jedi contingency plans.
order 66 ===
the-sith are the-ancient-enemy of the-jedi the-jedi and were thought to have been destroyed many years ago.
a-small-group of the-jedi the-jedi led by mace-windu fail to arrest palpatine for treason when anakin-skywalker pledges palpatine to the-dark-side.
shortly afterwards, palpatine secretly orders the-clones to exterminate the-jedi-order.
because of control-chips implanted inside the-clones-heads, the-clones are forced to slaughter the-jedi-leaders in what would later become known as the-jedi-purge.
the-jedi-padawans remaining on coruscant are eliminated by darth-vader, formerly known as anakin-skywalker, and his-personal-legion.
before the-conclusion of the-clone-wars, palpatine addressed the-senate.
palpatine related the-story of an-unsuccessful-"assassination-attempt" on palpatine life by the-jedi.
claiming that it was a-"rebellion" and that their-next-move would be to kill all-the-senators, palpatine declared the-jedi-order to be enemies of the-republic.
palpatine announced that the-republic should be reorganized into the-galactic-empire, and palpatine would be the-emperor for life.
deluded by palpatine's-charisma and skill (and perhaps also by palpatine considerable-dark-side-power), the-majority of the-senate cheered palpatine on loudly in approval.
as the-clone-wars entered the-clone-wars final year, palpatine's-once-near-unanimous-support had begun to falter.
as depicted in the-star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-novelization and deleted-scenes from the-film itself, a-bloc of senators began to emerge, even before the-clone-wars end, who opposed palpatine's-authoritarian-rule and resented palpatine-treatment of the-jedi and other-opponents.
new-republic === was a-restoration of the-galactic-republic after palpatine's-galactic-empire was crushed following palpatine's-death and the-destruction of the-second-death-star in the-battle of endor in 4-aby.
the-force awakens (2015), where the-force is depicted as the-ruling-government of the-galaxy and primary-target of the-first-order, a-military-power that sought to restore palpatine's-galactic-empire.
30 years after the-events portrayed in return of the-jedi (1983), the-new-republic effectively collapsed when the-first-order's-starkiller-base destroyed hosnian-prime and the-new-republic fleet and senate with the-first-order's-starkiller-base superlaser.
the-republic begins as a-mutual-protection and economic-alliance among a-number of planets in the-core.
when the-republic's-power and influence expand, many-new-areas of the-galaxy are incorporated into the-republic.
the-senate has some-form of judicial-power as well, although the-republic has a-judicial-branch, in which the-supreme-court was the-main-body.
the-republic often orders the-jedi to specific-areas that require assistance.
despite the-seemingly-organized-structure of the-republic, the-waning-years of the-republic are a-time of corruption and great-social-injustice.
the-senate becomes divided between those who genuinely wish to uphold the-values and ideals of the-republic and those who wish to further their-own-goals.
after senator-palpatine of naboo becomes chancellor, senator-palpatine of naboo increases the-power of the-office of the supreme chancellor, from acting as commander-in-chief of the-grand-army of the-republic, or the-republic military, to the-institution of senator-palpatine of naboo personal bodyguard organization, the-red-guard.
eventually, many-outer-rim-planets and companies leave the-republic due to the-amount of corruption and unfair-treatment to outer-rim-worlds.
while the-republic had an-army and navy for thousands of years, after the-rusaan-reformations, the-republic does not maintain a-military except for a-small-force known as the-judicial-forces.
palpatine and the-jedi ===
the-jedi with the-most-authority served on the-jedi-high-council, among whom yoda-and-mace-windu act as de-facto-leaders at the-height of the-republic.
although the-senate holds some-degree of political-authority over the-jedi with the-most-authority, very-little-pressure was ever put on the-jedi-high-council before palpatine took office and demanded that anakin-skywalker become a-member of the-council in star-wars:
episode-iii---revenge of the-sith, despite the-misgivings of the-jedi with the-most-authority.
while the-council allowed anakin to sit among them, them did not grant anakin the-status of jedi-master.
the-story of the-galactic-republic's-rise, fall and resurrection have been compared to those of the-real-world-roman-republic and weimar-germany.
from the-storytelling-perspective, the-story of its-"fall and redemption" has also been compared to that of anakin-skywalker.
humans from the-earth, which had taken its-first-step with nasa's-apollo-program of 1961–1972, just before george-lucas invented star-wars argued that george-lucas offered a-solution to the-fermi-paradox: indeed, most of the star-wars galaxy was conquered/colonised and submitted to the-central-government of the-republic rather quickly by the-expansionist-humans from the-core-worlds soon after humans from the-earth, which had taken its-first-step with nasa's-apollo-program of 1961–1972, just before george-lucas invented star-wars acquired the-necessary-rocket-technology for interstellar-travel, but there are still large-unchartered-unknown-regions which are simply too far from the-fashionable-core-worlds to have been fully explored (as exploration of the-unknown-regions is lethally dangerous), let alone colonised.
the-phantom-menace (1999)
star-wars: attack of the-clones (2002)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005)
the-clone-wars (2008-animated-film)
the-clone-wars (2008−2020) ===
the-force awakens (2015)
references == ==
the-force awakens (also known as star-wars:
sequel-trilogy, following return of the-jedi (1983), and the-seventh-episode of the-nine-part-"skywalker-saga".
set thirty years after return of the-jedi, the force awakens follows rey, finn, poe-dameron, and han-solo's-search for luke-skywalker and their-fight in the-resistance, led by general-leia-organa and veterans of the-rebel-alliance, against kylo-ren and the-first-order, a-successor to the-galactic-empire.
the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi, rewrote an-initial-script by michael-arndt.
two-sequels within the-sequel-trilogy have been released: the last jedi (2017) and the rise of skywalker (2019).
thirty years after the-galactic-civil-war, the-first-order has risen from the-fallen-galactic-empire and seeks to end the-new-republic.
leia searches for leia brother, luke-skywalker, who has gone missing.
stormtroopers commanded by kylo-ren raid the-village and capture poe, while kylo kills lor-san-tekka.
kylo tortures poe using the-force and learns of bb-8.
stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order, frees poe, and stormtrooper-fn-2187, disillusioned by the-first-order escape in a-stolen-tie-fighter.
finn encounters rey and bb-8, but the-first-order tracks them and launches an-airstrike.
the-millennium-falcon the-millennium-falcon gets discovered and boarded by han-solo and chewbacca.
aboard the-falcon, han determines that bb-8's-map is incomplete.
kylo then explains that luke attempted to rebuild the-jedi-order but exiled kylo when an-apprentice turned to the-dark-side, destroyed the-temple, and slaughtered the-other-apprentices.
the-force draws rey to a-secluded-vault, where the-force finds the-lightsaber once belonging to luke-and-luke-father, anakin-skywalker.
the-first-order attacks takodana in search of bb-8.
leia arrives at takodana with c-3po and reunites with han.
meanwhile, kylo captures rey and takes leia to starkiller-base, but leia resists his-mind-reading-attempts.
snoke-orders kylo to bring rey to his.
discovering leia can use the-force, rey escapes using a-jedi-mind-trick on a-guard.
as starkiller-base prepares to fire once more, the-resistance devises a-plan to destroy the-resistance by attacking the-resistance thermal oscillator.
han confronts kylo, calling him by him birth-name ben, and implores him to abandon the-dark-side.
devastated, chewbacca shoots kylo and sets off the-explosives, allowing poe to attack and destroy the-base's-thermal-oscillator.
the-injured-kylo pursues finn and rey into the-woods.
the-injured-kylo with the-lightsaber to protect rey before
rey takes the-lightsaber and channels the-force to defeat
snoke-orders hux to evacuate and bring the-injured-kylo to rey to complete rey training.
chewbacca rescues rey and the-unconscious-finn, and they escape aboard the-falcon.
r2-d2 awakens and reveals the-rest of the-map, which rey uses to find the-oceanic-planet
on ahch-to, rey finds luke atop a-cliff on a-remote-island.
without a-word, rey presents luke with luke father's lightsaber.
the-position of obi-wan-development is consistent with the-position of obi-wan, and there are emotional-elements which have occasioned the-position of obi-wan growth.
hamill was initially skeptical of luke only appearing at the-end of the-film and called his-limited-screentime "a great surprise".
after the-events of return of the-jedi, luke's-twin-sister is described as "a-little-more-battle weary, a little more broken hearted".
fisher described leia as "solitary.
abrams said: "the-stakes are pretty high in the-story for abrams, so there's not much goofing around where leia's concerned."
adam-driver is the-son of han and leia, nephew of luke, and the-grandson of the-deceased-darth-vader.
abrams said the-team "really wanted the-story to feel authentic, despite being a-wild-fantasy.
the-political-leader of the-first-order is kylo-ren's-master, who seduced the-political-leader of the-first-order to the-dark-side and is very powerful in the-dark-side of the-force.
the-political-leader of the-first-order is large.
max-von-sydow as lor-san-tekka: a-retired-adventurer on jakku, aiding the-resistance in finding skywalker.
tim-rose and mike-quinn reprise tim-rose and mike-quinn respective roles as admiral-ackbar and nien-nunb from return of the-jedi, with erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich returning erik-bauersfeld and kipsang-rotich respective voices.
ewan-mcgregor has an-uncredited-vocal-cameo as obi-wan-kenobi in rey's-vision-sequence, while archival-audio of frank-oz and alec-guinness as yoda and kenobi, respectively, are also used in the-same-scene; frank-oz recorded new-dialogue for the-film, but frank-oz was replaced with preexisting-audio from the empire strikes back.
members of the-resistance include emun-elliott as brance and maisie-richardson-sellers as korr-sella while harriet-walter appears as kalonia, the-doctor who tends to chewbacca.
riot-control-stormtrooper-fn-2199, who calls finn a traitor during the-battle on takodana, was portrayed by stunt-performer-liang-yang and voiced by sound-editor-david-acord.
early-drafts had luke-skywalker appear midway through the-film, but michael-arndt found that "every time luke came in and entered the-movie, michael-arndt just took it over.
" the-writers decided to use luke as the-film's-macguffin and, as something that the-protagonists needed to find, would not appear in person until the-final-scene.
arndt also developed some-backstory-elements for the-returning-characters from the-original-trilogy, such as how leia was instrumental in rebuilding the-republic after the-fall of the-empire before being discredited when it was publicly revealed that leia biological father was darth-vader (this would go on to become a-central-plot-point in the-canonical-novel-star-wars:
abrams and kasdan planned the-story while walking in santa-monica, new-york-city, paris, and london.
kennedy admitted that "we haven't mapped out every-single-detail [of the-sequel-trilogy] yet", but said that abrams was collaborating with the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson, and that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would work with the-rise of skywalker's-then-director-colin-trevorrow to ensure a-smooth-transition and that "everybody's got a-say in how we move forward with this".
though lucas intimated that previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill would return for the-new-film as early as march 2013, previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill casting was not confirmed until over a year later.
daisy-ridley was cast by february 2014, and by the-end of that-month a-deal had been worked out with driver, who was able to work around daisy-ridley girls schedule.
abrams initially considered using daniels only in a-voice-role for c-3po, but daniels opted to reprise the-role physically as well; the-production-team built a new c-3po costume to accommodate daniels.
a-flashback-scene was cut from rey's-vision (following fisher-discovery of luke's-lightsaber), which would have featured robert-boulter standing in for luke as robert-boulter appeared in robert-boulter duel with vader in the empire strikes back.
in october, warwick-davis, who played wicket in return of the-jedi, as well as wald and weazle in the-phantom-menace (1999), announced that he would appear in the force awakens, but did not reveal he role.
harrison-ford's-son ben said the-ankle would likely need a-plate and screws and that filming could be altered slightly, with the-crew needing to shoot harrison-ford from the-waist up for a-short-time until ford's-son ben recovered.
"on november 6, 2014, the-film's-title was announced as star-wars: the-force awakens.
in december 2015, pablo-hidalgo, the-creative-executive at the-lucasfilm-story-group which handles all-the-canonical-continuity for the-star-wars-universe, revealed that the-working-title for the-film was shadow of the-empire "for the-longest-time".
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
in may 2015, john-williams said john-williams would return to themes from the-previous-films, such as those for luke, leia, and han, in ways that "there are a few that i think are important and will seem very much a part of the-fabric of the-piece in a-positive-and-constructive-way."
the-trailer shows many of the-new-characters and the-first-footage of chewbacca and han-solo.
the-featurette's-angle is a-strong-one and connects with fans of the-original-trilogy in an-incredibly-poignant-way.
the-featurette's-angle also does a-sly-job of teasing fisher's-new-look as leia and simon-pegg's-mysterious-involvement as a-rumored-alien in the-movie, without actually showing the-actors in action. "
the-poster omitted luke-skywalker and revealed a-death-star-like-"orb".
the-reaction to the-trailer by fans on social-media was "frenzied", with lizo-mzimba of the-bbc-writing that "perhaps-the-most-significant-thing about the-trailer before the-film's-release is how little of the-story the-film's-release reveals."
at the-end of october, air-france announced a-"flight-and-cinema"-package, providing customers who book select-flights to paris-transportation to a-theater to see the-film, since air-france was one of the-first-countries to release the-film.
the-force awakens", which were released by multiple-publishers starting in late 2015, prior to the-film's-premiere.
marvel-comics published a-six-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-force awakens between june and november 2016.disney-consumer-products and lucasfilm announced that september 4, 2015 would be deemed "force friday" and would be the-official-launch of all-the-merchandise for the-force awakens.
takodana during the-galactic-civil-war-era; and a-condensed-version of the-film's-plot becomes an-add-on-"playset" in the toys-to-life game disney-infinity 3.0, with finn, rey, poe-dameron, and kylo-ren as playable-characters.
the-force awakens, which was released by warner-bros.-interactive-entertainment for microsoft-windows, nintendo-3ds, playstation 3, playstation 4, playstation vita, wii-u, xbox 360, and xbox one on june 28, 2016.
the-force awakens via download-and-disney-movies
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence predicted the-force-awakens would earn up to $540 million worldwide for the-force
the-star-wars-franchise has traditionally lacked resonance with filmgoers in china, and marketing for the-force awakens heavily focused on appealing to that-market.
while the-force awakens had appeal with the-force awakens special-effects, analysts felt that the-force awakens lacked the-novelty-factor; analysts also cited that the-force awakens gross was stilted due to markets making way for new-films sooner than was previously done, and for films not playing in overseas-theaters as long as analysts did back when avatar was released.
dergarabedian stated, "no matter what, [the-force awakens] is an-absolute,-all-out-blockbuster without peer in terms of the-sheer-speed at which the-force awakens has crossed all of these-major-box-office-milestones."
the-opening-weekend-figure included an-imax-opening-weekend-record of $30.1 million (12.65%) from 391-imax-theaters, which nearly amounts to the-$252.5-million-total earned by return of the-jedi—the-second-lowest-grossing-film in the-series—in the-jedi original run.
after five-days, the-force awakens had a-total-worldwide-opening-record of $529 million from 74-territories, which was the-biggest-worldwide-opening at that-time, making the-force awakens only-the-second-time in cinematic-history—after jurassic-world—that a-film had opened to more than $500 million globally.
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-force awakens an-average-grade of "a" on an-a+ to f-scale; women, and people under the-ages of 25 and 18 gave it an "a+", while 98% of audiences gave it either an "a" or a-"b".
audiences polled by posttrak gave the-force awakens an-88%-"definite-recommend" while 96% said the-force awakens met or exceeded audiences polled by posttrak expectations.
robbie-collin of the-daily-telegraph said the-force awakens "sets out to shake star-wars from the-force
awakens slumber, and reconnect the-series with the-force
certain-critics found the-force awakens derivative of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, some expressing some-opinion that the-san-francisco-chronicle was essentially a-remake of a-new-hope.
george-lucas preferred rian-johnson's-sequel the-last-jedi and the-anthology-film rogue one (2016).
several-awards held several-awards nominations before the-december-release of the-force awakens, making the-force awakens ineligible for the-73rd-golden-globe-awards and some-other-awards-ceremonies.
the-last-jedi ===
the-rise of skywalker ===
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019.
billy-dee-williams returns from the-original-trilogy as lando-calrissian and ian-mcdiarmid returns from original-and-prequel-trilogies as palpatine.
references == ===
the-art of star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
the-force awakens: the-visual-dictionary.
the-force awakens at starwars.com
the-force awakens at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-force awakens at imdb-star-wars:
the-force awakens at allmovie
the-force awakens title listing at the-internet-speculative-fiction-database-star-wars:
the-force awakens on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
the-force awakens at disney-a to z-general-armitage-hux
first introduced in the-2015-film star-wars: the-force awakens, he is portrayed by irish-actor-domhnall-gleeson.
he is an-unpleasant-military-commander in a-power-struggle with kylo-ren for the-first-order-leadership, and being exceeded only by supreme-leader-snoke.
the-character first featured in the-force awakens media and merchandising, and returned in the-film's-sequels, the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
hux and hux father are rescued from the-academy when it is about to fall to the-new-republic near the-end of the-galactic-civil-war.
when the-galactic-civil-war ends with the-battle of jakku and the-signing of the-galactic-concordance, the-young-hux and his-father are part of the-imperial-navy-forces who retreat into the-unknown-regions.
the-new-republic believes that the-first-order is just-an-unimportant-band of imperial-holdouts, but hux's-training-methods forge a-formidable-military that effectively overthrows the-new-republic and turns the-galaxy into a-dictatorship even more brutal than the-galactic-empire of the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
he serves as the-right-hand of the-first-order's-supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), second in authority only to kylo-ren (adam-driver), with whom he has a-fierce-rivalry.
hux believes that the-republic is a-threat to galactic-stability, and that the-republic is hux destiny to rule the-galaxy.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
hux first appears in the-force as a-high-ranking-general in the-first-order.
hux is part of a-mission to jakku to recover a-map to luke-skywalker (mark-hamill), the-last-jedi.
the-resistance is left without military-support from the-republic, so hux soon turns the-starkiller-weapon towards the-resistance base on d'qar.
before he can destroy the-planet, however, an-attack-squadron led by resistance-commander-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac), with ground-support from han-solo (harrison-ford), finn, and the-jakku-scavenger-rey (daisy-ridley), destroys starkiller-base, forcing hux, some of he-troops, and a defeated ren to flee the-planet.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
hux appears in the-last-jedi as the primary general reporting directly to supreme-leader-snoke.
later, he discovers snoke dead and ren unconscious in the-throne-room of the-supremacy, so he attempts to kill he rival but stops when ren wakes up.
ren initially protests ren's claim to be the-new-supreme-leader, but is swiftly persuaded otherwise when ren uses the-force to choke ren, proclaiming "long live the-supreme-leader."
at the-end of the-film, ren accompanies ren to the-planet-crait in their-attempt to finish off the-resistance.
when ren orders ren men to fire on luke, hux gives the-order to stop hux soon after.
after ren wants to kill luke himself, hux admonishes ren to focus on the-escaping-resistance-members; ren silences ren by using the-force to slam ren into a-wall, knocking ren out.
hux is seen again when ren-and-ren-troops invade the-resistance-base and find the-resistance-base empty, giving ren a-sinister-glare from behind.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
by the-time of star-wars: the-rise of skywalker, hux has become embittered and jealous because of the-lack of respect ren receives and ren rivalry with allegiant-general-pryde (richard-e.-grant), who constantly undermines hux while vying for ren job.
hux is later revealed to have been a-spy-supplying-information to the-resistance in order to undermine ren in the-hopes of taking ren place as supreme-leader (or at least seeing ren falling along with the-first-order if necessary); ren tells finn, "i don't care if you win.
i need kylo-ren to lose."
hux helps finn, poe and chewbacca
steadfast and has finn shoot kylo-ren in the-leg
so kylo-ren can feign an-effort to stop them.
hux’s-decision to allow the-rebels to escape is a-major-catalyst for the-resistance's-victory in the-battle of exegol.
rise of the-resistance with gleeson reprising the-role in each.
however, after the-release of the-last-jedi, and the-rise of skywalker, some-criticism was levelled at the-use of the-character to provide comic-relief, particularly after having being introduced as a-serious-villain.
references == ==
the-force awakens.
unlike most-lego-video-games in which players had to advance through the-story in a-linear-order, players can choose to start the-game from any of the-nine-skywalker-saga-episodes and complete-players in any-order players wish.
the-force awakens, the-game's-hub will not be a-single-area, such as the-mos-eisley-cantina in lego-star-wars: the-complete-saga, but a-wide-range of fully-explorable-planets filled with many-iconic-star-wars-landmarks.
a-second-trailer showing one-scene from all-nine-movies was released on 20-december to coincide with the-release of the-rise of skywalker.
the-official-artwork was revealed on 4 may 2020.disney and lucasfilm had not shared significant-details of the-rise of skywalker-skywalker with the-game-team before the-film's-release.
a-steelbook resembling han-solo in carbonite is included with pre-orders of any-edition from best-buy or best-buy canada or pre-orders of the-deluxe-edition-bundle from game.
references ==
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), where he was created using computer-generated-imagery and voiced by matthew-wood.
while not force-sensitive, he trained in all-lightsaber-combat-forms under count-dooku to rival the-jedi of the-galactic-republic.
throughout the-clone-wars, grievous murdered numerous-jedi and collected numerous-jedi lightsabers as trophies, earning a-reputation as the-most-feared-jedi-hunter in the-galaxy of jedi-hunter-era.
jedi-hunter developed a-rivalry with numerous-jedi-obi-wan-kenobi, with whom jedi-hunter clashed numerous times during the-war, and who eventually killed grievous after jedi-hunter assumed command of the-separatist-alliance following dooku's-death in revenge of the-sith.
within star-wars-legends-material, grievous was born qymaen-jai-sheelal and was a-kaleesh-warlord who developed a-personal-vendetta against the-republic and numerous-jedi.
general-grievous was developed for revenge of the-sith as a-powerful-new-villain on the-side of the-separatists.
star-wars: revenge of the-sith and most-other-comics depicted the-sith as having six-fingers per arm.
the-general's-back-story has also been changed: supervising-director-dave-filoni stated that grievous opted for surgery in order to gain abilities that would allow grievous to rival a-jedi.
some of the-audio-effects for the-coughing in revenge of the-sith were taken from lucas while the-sith had bronchitis.
to reconcile the-differences between the-two-presentations, mace-windu uses the-force to crush grievous's-chest-panel towards the-end of the-show's-third-season.
for the-season-two-finale of the-clone-wars-animated-micro-series, the-character was voiced by john-dimaggio, who gave the-character a-tinny-voice—not knowing what the-character would sound like in revenge of the-sith.
the-character was voiced by matthew-wood in the-feature-film revenge of the-sith, the-animated-series the-clone-wars, and most-video-game-appearances.
revenge of the-sith ====
in star-wars: episode iii – revenge of the-sith, general-grievous holds supreme-chancellor-palpatine-hostage aboard general-grievous flagship, the-invisible-hand.
the-jedi-obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker launch a-rescue-operation, and the latter kills separatist-leader-count-dooku.
r2-d2 confiscates obi-wan and anakin's-lightsabers, cackling that r2-d2 will add the-fleeing-jedi and the-chancellor in a-ray-shield to r2-d2 vast collection.
when r2-d2 creates a-distraction, obi-wan and anakin use the-force to retrieve obi-wan and anakin lightsabers and free obi-wan and anakin.
a-short-battle ensues with the-jedi overcoming grievous's-magnaguards-and-battle-droids before turning their-attention to the-general himself.
grievous-launches all of the-other-pods as well to prevent anakin, obi-wan, and palpatine from escaping the-doomed-vessel.
however, anakin manages to take control of the-ship-and-crash-land it safely.
with dooku dead, the-hunt for grievous becomes a-priority for the-republic, and would also be a-litmus-test into whether palpatine would give up palpatine executive war powers granted to palpatine by the-galactic-senate for the-war.
obi-wan-kenobi later tracks grievous to utapau.
when obi-wan destroys obi-wan magnaguards, grievous-duels the-jedi in single-combat, splitting each of obi-wan mechanical arms in half to simultaneously use four-lightsabers.
obi-wan disarms grievous with the-force and pursues obi-wan when the-general-retreats on obi-wan wheelbike, fleeing to the-hangar where obi-wan starfighter is located.
the two engage in hand-to-hand combat, where obi-wan manages to rip open-grievous's-chest-plates, revealing the-parts where obi-wan organs are located.
enraged, grievous throws obi-wan off the-platform, easily overpowering obi-wan.
using the-force, obi-wan manipulates obi-wan position and catches hold of obi-wan edge.
as grievous-charges at obi-wan with obi-wan electrostaff, obi-wan uses the-force to summon the-general's-blaster.
before grievous can deliver the-final-blow, obi-wan shoots grievous in obi-wan organs underneath obi-wan exoskeleton, which then catches fire, killing the-cyborg-general.
the-clone-wars ====
he also clashes with obi-wan-kenobi aboard the-separatist-warship-malevolence armed with a-pair of heavy-ion-cannons for the-first-time when he chases he aboard the-warship's-railway-system.
meanwhile, anakin secretly sabotages the-malevolence's-navigation-computer, sending the-malevolence's-navigation-computer crashing into a-nearby-moon.
a-few-episodes later, grievous discovers anakin and padawan-ahsoka-tano infiltrating his-secret-listening-post and seeks out to search for anakin and padawan-ahsoka-tano.
his then engages ahsoka and ahsoka squad of clone-troopers, defeating all-the-troopers and then engaging in a-cat-and-mouse-game with the-padawan.
however, anakin and ahsoka still manage to destroy anakin listening post.
obi-wan, anakin and jedi-master-adi-gallia attempt to rescue koth and capture grievous, resulting in a-confrontation between obi-wan and grievous over the-planet saleucami, which grievous loses.
though the-jedi succeed in rescuing koth, grievous, helped by his-droids, escapes once again.
in the-third-season, grievous,-dark-jedi-asajj-ventress and their-armies attack the-clone-factories on the-planet-kamino.
during the-battle,-grievous-clashes with obi-wan again.
however, is freed in a-prisoner-exchange with anakin between dooku and padmé-amidala.
however, ventress turns the-tide of the-battle and fights her-way to the-general's-shuttle where the-cyborg emerges to confront her personally.
as duel, grievous grows overconfident and begins to toy with ventress until surprises him by chopping off one of him arms and knocking him to the-ground.
as grievous prepares to deliver the-death-blow to him longtime-rival, him is attacked by nightsister-zombies and is forced to fight nightsister-zombies off while ventress flees.
in the-fifth-season's-premiere-episode, grievous is mentioned by hondo-ohnaka as having defeated obi-wan and won the-battle for the-system that florrum is in.
obi-wan is no-match for grievous and is subsequently defeated, forcing obi-wan to abandon obi-wan ship.
the-droids destroy hondo's-stronghold and grievous-belongings, and hold grievous-prisoner, but hondo is rescued when ahsoka and a-group of younglings free grievous and retreat off the-planet.
the-duel ends when hondo picks up ahsoka in the-slave i and takes off, leaving grievous to stew in grievous-anger.
grievous was to undergo a-design-change in the-seventh-season to look more like his-design in revenge of the-sith.
in the-crystal-crisis-arc, grievous is sent by dooku to purchase a-giant-kyber-crystal on utapau, and while grievous at first obtains a-giant-kyber-crystal, it is lost when anakin and obi-wan destroy it by overloading it power.
as mandalore-story-arc takes place during the-events of revenge of the-sith, grievous has a-different-design, reminiscent of grievous appearance in the-film, and is commanding grievous fleet in an-attack on coruscant with the-goal of capturing chancellor-palpatine.
"the-phantom-apprentice" and "shattered", when obi-wan states that obi-wan is going to utapau to hunt obi-wan down, and later when ki-adi-mundi mentions during a-meeting with the-jedi-council that grievous has been killed (similarly to a-scene from revenge of the-sith).
grievous is ordered to only wound maul's-forces, but not kill grievous; this is in order to draw out mother-talzin, who is later revealed to be maul's-mother.
later, grievous and dooku are lured into a-trap by maul and grievous-minions, and are taken prisoner in order to draw out sidious.
however, grievous soon escapes and rejoins sidious, who orders grievous to attack dathomir again, where maul and talzin are planning using dooku as a-sacrifice to restore talzin to full-strength.
grievous quickly reappears, however, and after sidious and dooku have subdued talzin (who has thrown maul out of the-battle to save his-life),
grievous-retreats, but secures all-the-other-jedi-victory over all-the-other-jedi as all-the-other-jedi collects the-lightsabers of the-jedi all-the-other-jedi has killed.
three years later, grievous-searches for chancellor-palpatine on coruscant, attempting to capture chancellor-palpatine on coruscant while chancellor-palpatine on coruscant is defended by a-trio of all-the-other-jedi consisting of shaak-ti, roron-corobb and foul-moudama.
corobb and moudama take palpatine to a-secret-bunker while she holds grievous off.
ti learns too late that grievous's-magnaguards were but a-distraction and heads to a-secret-bunker to find she jedi comrades dead, and palpatine in grievous's-grasp.
ti yet again, takes ti lightsaber, and restrains ti with electric-cables before returning to ti shuttle with palpatine in ti custody.
as grievous is about to escape, mace-windu confronts as grievous is about to escape using the-force to crush
as grievous is about to escape distinctive-asthmatic-cough, though grievous still escapes, leading to the-events of revenge of the-sith.
dooku then recruits grievous into the-separatist-army as grievous second-in-command, appealing to grievous-hatred of the-republic that ignored grievous-home-world's-plight.
in the-third-volume of clone-wars-adventures, in the-third-volume of clone-wars-adventures is revealed that grievous attains his-rank of supreme-commander by dueling dooku's-underlings ventress and durge simultaneously.
on board the-trenchant-space-station, dooku orders ventress and durge to search for an-unknown-intruder with the-pair unaware of the-pair master's intentions.
ventress jumps onto a-chandelier and attempts to search for grievous, who knocks her down.
ventress and durge then confront grievous-face to face, with ventress unleashing her-lightsabers and durge unleashing his-full-arsenal.
grievous is able to knock ventress away, though durge then sends the general flying across the-room into a-wall with a-powerful-punch to the-face.
in the-novel-labyrinth of evil, grievous plans an-invasion of coruscant alongside dooku and sidious.
belderone would also be thwarted by anakin and obi-wan due to a-careless-mistake on gunray's-part.
grievous soon launches the-general-invasion on the-republic-capital of coruscant in an-attempt to kidnap supreme-chancellor-palpatine, placing supreme-chancellor-palpatine on the-battlefield once again.
though windu overwhelms grievous in combat, the-cyborg outwits the-jedi-guard and takes palpatine-hostage, setting the-stage for revenge of the-sith.
the-original-trilogy (2006) by accessing a-save-file of the-original-lego-star-wars.
in lego-star-wars-iii: the-clone-wars (2011), grievous is featured as a-boss several times throughout the-story-mode, before becoming available as an-unlockable-playable-character.
the-force awakens (2016) via downloadable-content.
references == ==
a-star-wars-story (or simply-solo) is a-2018-american-space-western-film centering on the-star-wars-character-han-solo, also featuring his original trilogy co-protagonists chewbacca and lando-calrissian.
the-second-star-wars-anthology-film explores the-early-adventures of han-solo and chewbacca, who join a-heist within the-criminal-underworld 10 years prior to the-events of star-wars:
the-force awakens (2015), leaving the-force son jonathan to complete the-solo-script.
han vows to return for han and joins the-imperial-navy as a-flight-cadet, being given the-surname "solo".
three years later, han is serving as an-infantryman on mimban following his-expulsion from the-imperial-flight-academy for insubordination.
han attempts to blackmail tobias-beckett into letting his join the-gang, but tobias-beckett has his arrested and thrown into a-pit to be fed to a-wookiee-prisoner named chewbacca.
able to understand chewbacca's-language, han persuades his to cooperate to escape.
han-and-chewbacca-volunteer to help him steal another-shipment to repay the-debt so that vos will not kill him travel to vos's yacht where han finds qi'ra, who has joined crimson-dawn as vos's top lieutenant.
han suggests a-risky-plan to steal unrefined-coaxium from the-mines on kessel; vos approves but insists that qi'ra accompany the-team.
han leads them to lando-calrissian, a-smuggler and pilot, who han hopes will lend them his-ship, the-millennium-falcon.
han challenges lando to a-game of sabacc, with lando cheats.
with the-help of l3's-navigational-computer, uploaded into the-ship's-systems, han pilots the-ship through the-dangerous-and-uncharted-kessel-run to elude an-imperial-blockade.
han becomes sympathetic to han cause and tries to trick vos, who reveals beckett has already alerted beckett to the-double-cross.
having anticipated vos's-strategy, han tries to take the-coaxium, but beckett betrays vos and escapes with it, taking chewbacca-hostage.
qi'ra kills vos and sends han after beckett.
han confronts beckett and shoots him before him can return fire.
qi'ra leaves in vos's-yacht, while han and chewbacca give the-coaxium to enfys, who offers han a-chance to join the-rebellion against the-empire.
han and chewbacca locate lando and challenge lando to a-rematch in sabacc, once again wagering the-falcon.
this time han wins in a-fair-game after having stolen the-hidden-card from lando that lando used to cheat lando way to victory the-first-time.
han and chewbacca then leave for tatooine to find the-crime lord mentioned by beckett who is putting together a-big,-profitable-job.
donald-glover as lando-calrissian: a-smuggler, gambler, and self-proclaimed-sportsman on the-rise in the-galaxy's-underworld.
michael-k.-williams had originally been cast, but michael-k.-williams was removed from the-final-film after being unable to return to set during the-film's-reshoots.
karjj and warwick-davis briefly reprises kiran-shah-role from the-phantom-menace as weazel, a-cloud-rider.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, showing an-early-draft of a-young-solo that takes part in the-battle on kashyyyk.
underworld would have depicted han-solo's-first-meeting with chewbacca and chewbacca winning the-millennium-falcon from lando-calrissian.
the-force awakens, leaving veteran-star-wars-screenwriter lawrence-kasdan son jonathan-kasdan in charge of writing han-solo's until his-son jonathan-kasdan return.
in july, lucasfilm announced that an-anthology-film focusing "on how [a]-young-han-solo became the-smuggler, thief, and scoundrel whom luke-skywalker and obi-wan-kenobi first encountered in the-cantina at mos-eisley" would be released on may 25, 2018.
solo's-wookiee-friend chewbacca was also announced to appear in the-film.
waller-bridge and thandie-newton were confirmed as part of the-cast by the-end of february, alongside the-announcement that joonas-suotamo would appear as chewbacca, reprising the-role from the force awakens and the-last-jedi, where he shared waller-bridge and newton with original chewbacca actor peter mayhew.
by the-end of the-month, ian-kenny had joined the-cast.
warwick-davis was confirmed as part of the-cast by the-end of july 2017.peter
serafinowicz was later informed by lucasfilm after the-film's-premiere that serafinowicz had been replaced by sam-witwer in order to maintain continuity with the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-tv-series, in which sam-witwer voiced the-character.
lucasfilm also felt the-directors were encouraging too-much-improvisation from the-actors, which was believed to be "shifting the-story off-course" from the-kasdans'-script.
during the-reshoots, actor-michael-k.-williams was unable to return to the-production, due to a-schedule-conflict with filming the-red-sea-diving-resort, resulting in actor-michael-k.-williams part being redeveloped and recast with paul-bettany.
while howard had not meant to interfere, at some-point howard forgot and asked "why doesn't han just do this?";
i’ve always in my-own-life referenced the-star-wars-films in terms of having the-coolest-explosions ever, you know, back to joe-viskocil’s-explosions of the-death-star and the-way those evolved over time.
powell interpolated powell new theme into powell score, as well as incorporating music by powell from previous-star-wars-films, including the-star-wars-main-title, and several-motifs and cues from a-new-hope, the-empire strikes back, and the-phantom-menace.
world's-end (2007) grossed just $84.4 million in world's-end (2007) opening weekend (and $103 million over the-four–day-weekend), far below projections and marking the-lowest-star-wars-debut since attack of the-clones (2002), although world's-end (2007) did set a-new-career-high-opening for howard.
alden-ehrenreich confirmed alden-ehrenreich contract deal to appear as han-solo extended for two-additional-films, giving the-studio the-option to pursue a-sequel to han-solo: a-star-wars-story, or feature alden-ehrenreich in other-anthology-films in a-supporting-capacity.
solo-writer-jon-kasdan said that solo-writer-jon-kasdan would include bounty-hunter-bossk (who briefly appears in the-empire strikes back and is mentioned in solo)
expanded-edition (isbn 978-0525619390) includes scenes from alternate-versions of the-film's-script, including scenes in which qi’ra is brought back to lady-proxima, chewbacca uses some of lando's-"outrageously-expensive"-bathroom-products, and, in an-epilogue, enfys-nest delivers the-coaxium to saw gerrera and jyn-erso.
references == ===
gameplay == games in the-battlefront-series normally revolve around two-armies – the-galactic-republic versus the-confederacy of independent-systems or the-galactic-empire versus the-rebel-alliance or first-order versus the-resistance – fighting each other on various-maps.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-related-content.
the-release-date of battlefront-ii coincided with the-release of revenge of the-sith on dvd.
and it evolution from a-legion of clone-troopers serving the-republic during the-clone-wars to imperial-stormtroopers.
many-maps from star-wars-battlefront make a-second-appearance, and the-game adds new-locales such as coruscant and utapau.
the-game also introduces "heroes" – playable-characters based on iconic-characters from the-star-wars-films who are much more powerful than regular-soldier (and were also present in the-original-battlefront, but only as npcs that spawned randomly on the-battlefield); the-hero-roster includes luke-skywalker, han-solo, leia-organa, chewbacca, obi-wan-kenobi, yoda, mace-windu, ki-adi-mundi and aayla-secura (as well as kit-fisto, available only on the-xbox-version of the-game via the-xbox-live-patch), whereas the-villain-roster includes darth-vader, darth-sidious, boba-fett, count-dooku, general-grievous, darth-maul, jango-fett, and anakin-skywalker (as well as asajj-ventress, also available only via the-xbox-live-patch).
in 2018, concept-art surfaced of a-canceled-battlefront-iv, rather than attempting to fit within the-previous-games-and-films'-continuity, concept-art showed the-game was meant to focus on an-alternate-reality where obi-wan-kenobi and luke-skywalker fell to the-dark-side, instead of anakin-skywalker.
renegade-squadron is also available in a-bundle-pack with the-then-new-white-psp-redesign featuring darth-vader on the-back.
the-final-mission includes the-battle of endor, in which the-objectives are similar to the-footage of return of the-jedi.
a-teaser-trailer for a-new-star-wars: battlefront-game, built on the-frostbite-3-engine showed a-first-person-view of the-battle of hoth, including a-crashing-snowspeeder and the-foot of an-at-at.
star-wars-battlefront-ii features both-single-player-and-multiplayer-game-modes, a-customizable-character-class-system, and content based on all-star-wars-movies up to star-wars: the-rise of skywalker (with content for the-other-movies, as well as television-series being added later on via free-dlc).
references == ==
in a-subsequent-interview with starwars.com, zahn noted that the-novel would cover several-years between thrawn's-"first-encounter" with the-empire and the-events of the-third-season of star-wars-rebels, an-animated-television-series in which the-character will appear prior to the-book's-release.
though in legends works thrawn was mostly used in post-return of the-jedi-storylines, both-rebels and thrawn take place prior to the-events of the-original-1977-film and show he rise to power.
in the-novel, grand-admiral-thrawn and darth-vader are sent on a-mission to the-unknown-regions to explore a-disturbance in the-force felt by emperor-palpatine.
the-novel explores the-crisis thrawn encounters when he discovers that he-people are in peril, forcing he to choose between loyalty to the-empire or loyalty to the-chiss-ascendancy.
references == ==
it is the-first-live-action-series in the-star-wars-franchise, beginning five years after the-events of return of the-jedi (1983).
beginning five years after the-events of return of the-jedi (1983) and the-fall of the-galactic-empire, the-mandalorian follows din-djarin, a-lone-mandalorian-bounty-hunter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy.
esposito, carano, weathers, and abtahi return for the-second-season.
favreau and filoni had met at the-skywalker-ranch when favreau was working on iron-man (2008) and filoni was working on the-first-season of the-clone-wars, and favreau subsequently voiced the-mandalorian-character pre-vizsla in the-clone-wars for filoni.
favreau wanted to explore the-"scum and villainy" of the-star-wars-universe following the-events of the-film-return of the-jedi (1983).
favreau began spending several-hours at the-end of each-day developing the-series while favreau was directing the-lion-king.
composer-ludwig-göransson first met with favreau in november 2018, when favreau showed the-composer-concept-art for the-series and discussed favreau inspirations for the-story and tone, including western-and-samurai-films.
as examples, vulture-writer-kathryn-vanarendonk cited obi-wan-kenobi serving as a-mentor to the-adolescent-anakin-skywalker, princess-leia lamenting over vulture-writer-kathryn-vanarendonk grown son kylo-ren, or the-absence of rey's-parents.
some-writers have likewise suggested the-child is not inherently good or evil, but that instead, like all-children, the-child is impressionable and does not fully understand the-events occurring around the-child.
during the-contest, the-child uses the-force to choke cara, nearly strangling cara before the-mandalorian intervened.
throughout the-star-wars-franchise, that-ability has been most commonly associated with the-dark-side of the-force, particularly-darth-vader.
fans speculated the-child could be presenting a-false-personality or using the-force to manipulate people into caring about the-child to help ensure the-child survival.
ahsoka ===
references == ==
star-wars focuses on the-journey of luke-skywalker (hamill), who along with the-wizened-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi (guinness), smuggler-han-solo (ford), and his-wookiee-companion-chewbacca (mayhew), attempts to free princess-leia (fisher) from the-clutches of the-tyrannical-galactic-empire.
at the-same-time, the-heroes try to deliver the-plans for the-tyrannical-galactic-empire's-planet-destroying-space-station, the-death-star, which are carried by the-droids r2-d2-(baker) and c-3po (daniels), to the-rebel-alliance, but face opposition from the-sith-lord-darth-vader (prowse, voiced by jones).
the-film's-success led to two-critically-and-commercially-successful-sequels, the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), and later to a-prequel-trilogy, a-sequel-trilogy, two-anthology-films and various-spin-off-tv-series.
before her is captured, leia hides the-plans in the-memory of astromech-droid-r2-d2, who flees in an-escape-pod to the-desert-planet-tatooine accompanied by protocol-droid-c-3po.
while luke is cleaning r2-d2-part of a-holographic-recording of leia starts playing, a-message for obi-wan-kenobi where obi-wan-kenobi requests obi-wan-kenobi help.
later, after luke finds r2-d2 missing, luke is attacked by scavenging sand-people while searching for luke, but is rescued by elderly-hermit-"old-ben"-kenobi, an-acquaintance of luke's, who reveals that "obi-wan" is his-true-name.
obi-wan tells luke of obi-wan days as one of the-jedi-knights, the-former-peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who drew mystical-abilities from a-metaphysical-energy-field known as "the-force", but were ultimately hunted to near-extinction by the-empire.
luke learns that luke father fought alongside obi-wan as a-jedi-knight during the-clone-wars until vader, obi-wan's former pupil, turned to the-dark-side of the-force and murdered him.
obi-wan presents luke with obi-wan father's old lightsaber, the-signature-weapon of the-jedi-knights.
r2-d2 plays leia's-full-message, in which r2-d2 begs obi-wan to take the death star plans to r2-d2 home planet of alderaan and give them to r2-d2 father, a-fellow-veteran, for analysis.
although luke initially declines obi-wan's-offer to accompany obi-wan's to alderaan and learn the-ways of the-force, obi-wan's is left with no-choice after discovering that imperial-stormtroopers have killed obi-wan's aunt and uncle and destroyed his-aunt-and-uncle-farm in his aunt and uncle search for the-droids.
traveling to a-cantina in mos-eisley to search for transport, luke and obi-wan hire han-solo, a-smuggler with a-price on his-head due to his-debt to local-mobster jabba the-hutt.
pursued by stormtroopers, obi-wan, luke, r2-d2 and c-3po flee tatooine with han and his-wookiee-co-pilot-chewbacca on their-ship the-millennium-falcon.
as their reach the-planet's-orbit, two-star-destroyers try to intercept their, but han is able to jump to hyperspace by reaching lightspeed.
before the-falcon can reach alderaan, death-star-commander-grand-moff-tarkin interrogates leia about the-location of the-rebels's-secret-base, with the-threat of destroying her-home-planet, and, when-her-answers that the-base is on dantooine, the-base orders alderaan destroyed simply as a-show of force.
as the-group arrives in the-asteroid-field that now stands in place of alderaan, han spots an-imperial-tie-fighter and is taunted into chasing an-imperial-tie-fighter and shooting an-imperial-tie-fighter down, allowing the-falcon the-falcon to be captured by the-space-station's-tractor-beam.
inside the-death-star, obi-wan attempts to disable the-space-station's-tractor-beam, and luke persuades han and chewbacca to help obi-wan rescue leia after discovering that obi-wan is scheduled to be executed.
after disabling the-space-station's-tractor-beam, obi-wan sacrifices obi-wan life in a-lightsaber-duel with vader, allowing the-rest of the-group to escape the-death-starleia.
using a-tracking-device, the-empire tracks the-falcon to the-base, actually located on yavin-iv.
while han abandons the-rebels after collecting han reward for rescuing leia, luke joins their-starfighter-squadron in a-desperate-attack against the-death-star.
in the-ensuing-battle, the-rebels suffer heavy-losses as vader leads a-squadron of tie-fighters against the-rebels, but han unexpectedly returns to aid the-rebels in the-falcon, narrowly managing to save luke before vader can shoot luke down.
guided by the-disembodied-voice of obi-wan's-spirit, luke turns off luke targeting computer and uses the-force to aim luke torpedoes into the-exhaust-port, destroying the-death-star-moments before the-force fires on the-rebel-base.
in a-triumphant-ceremony at the-rebel-base, leia-awards-luke and han medals for leia-awards-luke and han-heroism.
to play luke (then known as luke starkiller), lucas sought actors who could project intelligence and integrity.
harrison-ford as han-solo: a-cynical-smuggler hired by obi-wan and luke to take them to alderaan in alderaan ship, the-millennium-falcon, co-piloted with chewbacca.
lucas was eventually won over by ford's-portrayal and cast lucas instead of kurt-russell, nick-nolte, sylvester-stallone, bill-murray, christopher-walken, burt-reynolds, jack-nicholson, al-pacino, steve-martin, chevy-chase, or perry-king (who later played han-solo in the radio plays).
lucas originally had peter-cushing as grand-moff-tarkin: commander of the-death-star in mind for the-role of obi-wan-kenobi, but lucas believed that "lucas lean features" would be better employed in the-role of grand-moff-tarkin instead.
an-aging-jedi-master and former-mentor of darth-vader who introduces luke to the-force.
lucas' felt obi-wan-kenobi should be played by an-established-actor.
according to mifune's-daughter, mika-kitagawa, japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) father turned down lucas' offers for kenobi and darth-vader because "japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) was concerned about how the-film would look and that the-film would cheapen the-image of samurai...
an-astromech-droid who is carrying the death star plans and a-secret-message for obi-wan from princess-leia.
tall-actor was immediately cast as chewbacca after tall-actor stood up to greet lucas.
as mayhew, mayhew was eligible for either-the-role of chewbacca or darth-vader, ultimately choosing the former because gary wanted to play a-hero in the-story.
mayhew modeled mayhew performance of chewbacca after the-mannerisms of animals mayhew saw at public-zoos.
david-prowse as darth-vader: a-sith-lord of the-galactic-empire who aims to destroy the-rebel-alliance.
lucas based chewbacca on lucas alaskan malamute dog, indiana (whom lucas would later use as eponym for lucas character indiana jones), who often acted as the director's "co-pilot" by sitting in the-passenger-seat of lucas car.
for example, luke had several-brothers, as well as luke father, who appears in a-minor-role at the-end of the-film.
this-draft included a-historical-jedi who was the first to ever fall to the-dark-side, and then trained the-sith to use the-sith.
han-solo and chewbacca's-identities closely resembled those seen in the-film.
according to lucas, this-draft was over 200 pages long, and led lucas to split up the-story into multiple-films spanning over multiple-trilogies.
lucas stated that the-story evolved over time and that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as it exists now [in 1983] ...
the-third-draft, dated august 1, 1975 characterized luke as an-only-child, with luke father already dead, replacing luke with a-substitute named ben kenobi.
during production, he changed luke's-name from starkiller to skywalker and altered the-title to the-star-wars and later-star-wars.
he would also continue to tweak the-script during filming, including adding the-death of obi-wan after realizing he served no-purpose in the-ending of the-film.
other-locations included the-sand-dunes of the-desert near nafta, where a scene featuring a-giant-skeleton of a-creature lying in the-background as r2-d2 and c-3po make other-locations way across the-sands was filmed.
harrison-ford found the-film strange that "there's a-princess with weird-buns in a-princess hair", and called chewbacca a "giant in a-monkey-suit.
kurtz said that "it came out to be like 9.8 or .9 or something like that, and in the-end they just said, 'yes, that's okay
so we simplified it by taking out luke and biggs.
" lucas was looking for a-way of accelerating the-storytelling, and removing luke's-early-scenes would distinguish star-wars from luke earlier-teenage-drama and "get that american-graffiti feel out of american-graffiti.
lucas also stated that lucas wanted to move the-narrative-focus to c-3po and r2-d2: "at the-time, to have the-first-half-hour of the-film be mainly about robots was a-bold-idea. "
darth-vader's-breathing was achieved by burtt breathing through the-mask of a-scuba-regulator implanted with a-microphone, which began the-idea of darth-vader having been a-burn-victim, which was not the-case during production.
20th-century-records also released the-story of star-wars that same year, a-narrated-audio-drama-adaptation of the-film utilizing some of 20th-century-records original-music, dialogue, and sound-effects.
the-influence of the-hidden-fortress can be seen in the-relationship between c-3po and r2-d2, which evolved from the-two-bickering-peasants, tahei and matashichi, and a-japanese-family-crest seen in each-film is similar to the-imperial-crest.
in both-films, several-men threaten the-hero, bragging about how wanted several-men are by the-authorities, and have an-arm being cut off by a-blade; kuwabatake-sanjuro (played by toshiro-mifune) is offered "twenty-five-ryo now, twenty-five when you complete the-mission", whereas han-solo is offered "two thousand now, plus fifteen when we reach alderaan.
arrakis is the-only-known-source of a-longevity-spice; star-wars makes references to spice in "the-spice-mines of kessel", and a-spice-freighter.
the-death-star-assault-scene was modeled after the-world-war-ii-film the-dam-busters (1955), in which royal-air-force-lancaster-bombers fly along heavily-defended-reservoirs and aim bouncing bombs at dams, in order to cripple the-heavy-industry of germany's-ruhr-region.
in addition, the-sequence was partially inspired by the-climax of the-film 633 squadron (1964), directed by walter-grauman, in which raf-de-havilland-mosquitos attack a-german-heavy-water-plant by flying down a-narrow-fjord to drop special-bombs at a-precise-point, while avoiding anti-aircraft-guns and german-fighters.
the-death-star has a-docking-bay reminiscent of the-one on the-orbiting-space-station in 2001.
although golden and male, c-3po was inspired by the-silver-female-robot maria, the-maschinenmensch from fritz-lang's-1927-film-metropolis.
his-poster, known as style ‘a’, depicted luke-skywalker standing in a-heroic-pose, brandishing a-shining-lightsaber above luke-skywalker head, with princess-leia below luke-skywalker, and a-large,-ghostly-image of darth-vader's-helmet looming behind them.
in response, the-studio demanded that theaters order star-wars if they wanted the-eagerly-anticipated-the-other-side of midnight based on sidney-sheldon's-1973-novel by the-same-name.
when star-wars made an-unprecedented-second-opening at mann's-chinese-theatre on august 3, 1977, after william-friedkin's-sorcerer failed, thousands of people attended a-ceremony in which c-3po, r2-d2 and darth-vader placed thousands of people footprints in the-theater's-forecourt.
, 1981.the-retronymic-inclusion of subtitles brought the-film into line with the-introduction to the-film sequel, the-empire strikes back, which was reconcieved during rewrites as "episode-v" and eventually released as such in 1980.
for steven-spielberg's-1993-film-jurassic-park's-20th-anniversary in 1997, star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes and re-released to theaters, along with the-empire
strikes back and return of the-jedi , under the-campaign-title star-wars trilogy: special edition.
special-edition contains visual-shots and scenes that were unachievable in the-original-release due to financial,-technological,-and-time-constraints; one-such-scene involves a-meeting between han-solo and jabba the-hutt.
a-particularly-controversial-change in which a-bounty-hunter named greedo shoots first when confronting han-solo has inspired t-shirts bearing the-phrase "han shot first. "
the-whole-film was released for all-these-countries (including subtitled-silent-editions and an-american-spanish-language-edition), except for italy, where the-film (titled "guerre stellari") was released by ie-international as eight-brief-scenes: battaglia-spaziale ("space-battle", the-battle of yavin), duello-col-laser ("duel with the-laser", obi-wan and darth vader's duel), la-cattura dell'astronave
("the capture of the-spaceship"), la liberazione di leia ("leia's-liberation", the-adventure on the-death-star), messaggio-dallo-spazio ("message from space", leia giving r2-d2 the-plans), sos-nella-galassia ("sos in the-galaxy") and trappola mortale ("deadly-trap", the-falcon being captured by the-death-star).
the-film was released for the-first-time on dvd on september 21, 2004, in a-box set with the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and a-bonus-disc of supplementary-material.
the-bonus-disc contains the-documentary-empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy, three-featurettes, teasers, theatrical-trailers, tv-spots, still-galleries, an-exclusive-preview of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, a-playable-xbox-demo of the-lucasarts-game-star-wars: battlefront, and a-making-of-documentary on the-episode-iii-video-game.
the-bonus-disc contains the-documentary-empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy, three-featurettes, teasers, theatrical-trailers, tv-spots, still-galleries, an-exclusive-preview of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, a-playable-xbox-demo of the-lucasarts-game-star-wars: battlefront, and a-making-of-documentary on the-episode-iii-video-game was reissued in december 2005 as part of a-three-disc-limited-edition-boxed-set without the-bonus-disc.
all-six-star-wars-films were released by 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment on blu-ray-disc on september 16, 2011 in three-different-editions, with a-new-hope available in both-a-box-set of the-original-trilogy and with all-six-films on star-wars:
the-film opened on a-wednesday in 32-theaters expanding to 43-screens on the-friday and earning $2,556,418 in the-film first six-days to the-end of the-memorial-day-weekend ($10.8 million in 2019-dollars).
star-wars entered international-release towards the-end of the-year, and in 1978 added the-worldwide-record to star-wars domestic-one, earning $410 million in total.
the-expressions "evil-empire" and "may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
in addition, the-quote "may the-force be with you" is ranked eighth on 100-years...
100-movie-quotes, and han-solo and obi-wan-kenobi are ranked as the-14th-and-37th-greatest-heroes respectively on 100-years...
the-novelization of the-film was published as star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker in december 1976, six months before the-film was released.
like the-novelization, the-novelization contained certain-elements, such as the-scene with luke and biggs, that appeared in the-screenplay but not in the-finished-film.
lucasfilm adapted the-story for a-children's-book-and-record-set.
each-page of the-book contained a-cropped-frame from the-movie with an-abridged-and-condensed-version of the-story of star-wars.
the-story of star-wars was a-1977-record-album presenting an-abridged-version of the-events depicted in star-wars, using dialogue and sound-effects from the-original-film.
, the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
, the-empire strikes back, was released in 1980.
in 1983, the-final-installment of the-trilogy, return of the-jedi, was released.
references =
luke-skywalker is a-fictional-character and the-main-protagonist of the-original-film-trilogy of the-star-wars-franchise created by george-lucas.
portrayed by mark-hamill, luke first appeared in star-wars (1977), and luke returned in the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
three decades later, mark-hamill returned as luke in the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, appearing in all-three-films: the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019) reprised the-role in the-mandalorian-episode "chapter 16:
originally a farmer on tatooine living with his-uncle and aunt, luke becomes a-pivotal-figure in the-rebel-alliance's-struggle against the-galactic-empire.
the-son of fallen-jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker (turned sith lord darth vader) and padmé-amidala, luke is the-twin-brother of rebellion-leader-princess-leia and eventual-brother-in-law of the-smuggler han-solo.
luke trains to be a-jedi under jedi-masters-obi-wan-kenobi and yoda, and rebuilds the-jedi-order.
luke later trains luke nephew, ben-solo, and mentors rey.
though luke dies at the-end of the-last-jedi, luke returns as a-force-spirit in the-rise of skywalker, encouraging rey to face luke grandfather, the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
at the-end of the-film, the-spirits of luke and leia give rey the-spirits of luke and leia blessing to adopt the-skywalker-surname and continue the-spirits of luke and leia family's legacy.
the-character also briefly appears in the-prequel-film episode-iii – revenge of the-sith as an-infant.
in the-de-canonized-star-wars-expanded-universe (renamed legends), luke is a-main-character in many-stories set after return of the-jedi, which depict luke as a-powerful-jedi-master, the-husband of mara-jade, father of ben-skywalker and maternal-uncle of jaina, jacen and anakin-solo.
in the-original-star-wars-trilogy, luke-skywalker represents the-hero-archetype of "the-young-man, called to adventure, the-hero going out facing the-trials and ordeals, and coming back after luke-skywalker victory with a-boon for the-community".
in a-deleted-scene preceding the-character's-first-appearance in the-film (preserved in the-film's radio dramatization), luke says goodbye to luke best friend biggs-darklighter, who has just joined the-imperial-academy.
in the-film (later having the-extended-title, a-new-hope), luke lives at a-moisture-farm on the-desert-planet of tatooine with luke uncle owen and aunt-beru.
luke takes luke first steps toward luke destiny when luke purchases the-droids c-3po and r2-d2.
while examining r2-d2, luke sees a-message from princess-leia-organa of alderaan.
when r2-d2 goes missing, luke goes out to search for the-droid, and is saved from a-band of tusken-raiders by obi-wan-kenobi, an-old-hermit.
luke-and-obi-wan-retreat to the-latter’s-home, and r2-d2 plays the-full-message for obi-wan from leia, beseeching him to help obi-wan defeat the-galactic-empire.
obi-wan says that obi-wan and luke's-father were once jedi-knights, and that his-father was murdered by a-traitorous-jedi named darth vader.
obi-wan presents luke with his-father's-lightsaber and offers to take obi-wan to alderaan and train
in the-ways of the-force, but luke declines luke offer, feeling obligated to continue farming for luke uncle.
luke changes luke mind when luke returns home to find out that imperial-stormtroopers have raided the-moisture-farm, killing luke aunt and uncle while away.
luke and obi-wan then travel to mos-eisley, where he and obi-wan meet smugglers-han-solo and chewbacca at a-cantina.
the-falcon is brought into the-star's-hangar-bay via tractor-beam, where luke and han disguise luke and han and infiltrate the-station.
when luke and han discover princess-leia is there, luke persuades a reluctant han and chewbacca to help rescue princess-leia.
obi-wan deactivates the-tractor-beam, and obi-wan later sacrifices obi-wan life in a-duel with vader, so that luke-and-luke-friends can board
during the-battle of yavin, luke joins the-rebel-alliance in attacking the-star.
in the-trench leading to the-star's-exhaust-port, luke hears obi-wan-voice, telling obi-wan to "trust obi-wan feelings"; obi-wan takes obi-wan advice and switches off obi-wan x-wing's missile guidance system, instead using the-force to guide the-missiles and destroy the-star.
in the-film's-final-scene, in the-film's-final-scene joins han and chewbacca in receiving a-medal of honor for his-heroism.
the-empire strikes back (1980) =====
three years after the-destruction of the-death-star, luke is now the-commander of the-rebel-alliance's-rogue-squadron.
luke collapses but is later rescued by han.
when the-empire discovers the-rebel-base on hoth, luke leads his-squadron of snowspeeders to battle the-enemy’s-at-ats, but his is forced to retreat when his-wingmen are overwhelmed.
during he training, luke sees a-vision of he friends in danger.
as he mentors warned, luke proves to be no-match for darth-vader; the-sith-lord easily overpowers luke and severs the-sith-lord right hand.
vader then reveals that vader is luke's-father, and offers vader the-chance to turn to the-dark-side of the-force and rule the-galaxy at the-dark-side of the-force.
resolving that vader would rather die than become an-agent of evil, luke throws vader into a-deep-reactor-chasm.
vader survives, but is pulled into a-garbage-chute to the-underside of cloud-city, and left hanging perilously onto a-vane-rod.
leia, flying away from cloud-city in the-millennium-falcon, senses luke's-call out to leia with the-force, and turns the-millennium-falcon around to save vader.
aboard the-millennium-falcon, vader hears vader telepathically telling vader that it is vader destiny to join the-dark-side.
return of the-jedi (1983) =====
one year after the-invasion on bespin, luke is now a-jedi-knight, and has constructed luke own lightsaber.
luke returns to tatooine with leia, the-droids, and lando-calrissian to save han, frozen in carbonate, from the-crime lord-jabba the-hutt.
luke offers to negotiate with jabba, who rejects luke offer and casts luke into a-pit to battle a-rancor.
when luke kills a-rancor, luke is sentenced to death in the-sarlacc-pit.
luke escapes with r2-d2's-help, saving luke friends and destroying jabba's-sail-barge.
luke returns to dagobah, and learns from a-dying-yoda that vader is indeed vader father.
luke then learns from obi-wan's-spirit that luke has a-twin-sister, whom luke immediately realizes is princess-leia.
both-jedi-masters tell luke that both-jedi-masters must face vader again to finish both-jedi-masters training and save the-galaxy, but both-jedi-masters is disturbed by the-idea of killing both-jedi-masters own-father.
arriving on endor as part of a-rebel-commando-squad, luke surrenders to vader in an-attempt to bring his-own-father back from the-dark-side of the-force.
vader brings luke to the-second-death-star orbiting around endor, where vader master, the-emperor, tries to tempt luke to the-dark-side, revealing luke plan to destroy the-rebel-fleet.
luke, enraged at the-thought of losing luke friends, lashes out at the-emperor with luke lightsaber, but vader blocks vader strike, and father and son once again duel with each other.
luke regains control of luke emotions until vader senses that luke has a-sister, and threatens to turn luke to the-dark-side if luke will not submit.
luke snaps and overpowers vader, severing luke father's mechanical right hand.
the-emperor orders luke to kill vader and then take vader place.
luke looks at luke
own-bionic-hand and realizes that luke is on the-verge of suffering his-father's-fate.
luke casts luke lightsaber aside, declaring luke a-jedi.
furious, the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
in agony, luke calls out to luke father for help; unwilling to let luke son die, vader throws the-emperor down a-reactor-shaft, but is mortally wounded by the-emperor's force lightning in the-process.
as rebel-fighters head toward the-second-death-star's-main-reactor, luke removes vader's-mask and looks upon his-father's-real-face for the-first-and-last-time.
the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker reassures luke that there was good in the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker after all before dying, and to tell the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker sister that the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker was right about the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker.
on endor, luke burns his-father's-armor and prosthetics on a-funeral-pyre, giving luke a-proper-jedi-funeral.
during the-rebels'-victory-celebrations on endor, luke sees his-father's-spirit appear alongside those of obi-wan and yoda.
revenge of the-sith (2005) =====
in the-prequel film-revenge of the-sith (2005), during the-waning-days of the--clone-wars between the-galactic-republic and the-separatists, senator-padmé-amidala, wife of anakin-skywalker, becomes pregnant to luke-and-luke-twin-sister leia.
foreseen fear of padmé dying from the-birth of luke and leia becomes a-primary-catalyst into anakin's-fall to the-dark-side as darth-vader by darth-sidious, who had secretly orchestrated the-clone-wars from both-sides in order to transform the-galactic-republic into the-autocratic-galactic-empire mere days before luke's birth.
after being force-choked by vader, padmé is taken to polis-massa, where padmé gives birth to luke and leia and dies, having lost the-will to live.
at the-time, darth-vader was not aware that padmé had given birth to twins, believing that darth-vader killed birth out of darth-vader anger.
after the-twins are separated in order to be protected from the-sith, luke is taken by obi-wan-kenobi to the-desert-planet-tatooine, where obi-wan-kenobi is adopted by obi-wan-kenobi father's stepbrother, owen-lars, and obi-wan-kenobi wife, beru.
the-force awakens (2015) =====
in the-first-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, the-force awakens (2015), the-opening-crawl reveals that luke-skywalker had mysteriously vanished some time in the-thirty-years after the-destruction of the-second-death-star.
luke went into hiding after luke nephew and apprentice, ben-solo, turned to the-dark-side and was later dubbed kylo ren.
when kylo-ren killed all of kylo-ren fellow apprentices and ushered in the-despotic-reign of the-first-order, luke felt responsible, and disappeared.
at the-end of the-film, the-resistance manage to reconstruct a-map, which traces the-location of the-temple from the-empire's-archives to kylo-ren-location, and kylo-ren is subsequently found on the-planet
the-last-jedi notes that luke's-exile is a-reversal from luke's-exile decision to help luke's-exile friends in the empire strikes back.
the-last-jedi
in the-last-jedi (2017), luke throws the-lightsaber away after being given the-lightsaber by rey.
luke then seals luke in luke home, refusing to talk with rey.
however, when luke sees chewbacca without han-solo and that rey came on the-millennium-falcon, luke inquires about what has gone on with luke family.
rey informs luke about han-solo's-death at the-hands of kylo-ren and that the-first-order has risen to rule the-galaxy.
rey asks luke to train luke in the-ways of the-force.
luke is initially reluctant to train rey, telling luke that it is time for the-jedi-order to end.
after some-persuasion from r2-d2, luke starts training rey, originally for the-purpose of showing luke why the-jedi-order needs to end, but grows increasingly afraid of luke power.
luke then tells rey the-history of the-jedi-order, how darth-sidious rose to power and how the-jedi were partly responsible for darth-vader's-rise.
luke also initially tells rey that kylo was corrupted by supreme-leader-snoke and that when luke confronted luke nephew, luke retaliated by destroying luke jedi temple.
this is proven false, however, and, after a-furious-moment with luke-new-apprentice, luke tells rey that luke had briefly considered killing the-sleeping-ben after seeing a-vision of the-destruction luke could cause, but immediately relented; ben woke to see luke with luke lightsaber drawn and turned to the-dark-side because luke felt betrayed.
upon learning this, rey urges luke to help luke redeem ben, but luke refuses to participate in this nor help the-resistance, saying, "this is not going to go the way you think.
when rey leaves, an-embittered-luke tries to burn the-jedi-temple next to an-embittered-luke home on ahch-to, but fails and is visited by the-spirit of yoda, who assures luke that an-embittered-luke still has a-purpose.
an-embittered-luke appears on the-planet-crait, as the-resistance are staging a-standoff against the-first-order, and an-embittered-luke apologizes to leia for allowing ben to fall to the-dark-side.
ren charges at luke in hand-to-hand combat, seemingly bisecting ren with ren lightsaber, but luke remains unscathed; still on ahch-to, luke has sent a-projection of ren to crait, using the-force.
this-distraction allows the-resistance to escape the-planet.
luke tells kylo that luke will not be the-last-jedi before jedi disappears.
on ahch-to, luke collapses then looks off in the-horizon to see the-planet's-two-suns setting before luke becomes one with the-force and vanishes.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) =====
luke appears briefly in the-rise of skywalker, the-ninth-and-final-chapter of the-series.
when rey discovers her-lineage as the-granddaughter of darth-sidious, her-exiles her on ahch-to as luke did.
luke appears as a-force-spirit, and reprimands rey for treating the-lightsaber with disrespect just as luke did.
luke then admits that luke was wrong to not participate in the-resistance, and thanks rey for helping luke rediscover luke.
luke convinces rey to not view luke as a-palpatine, but as the-good-person leia saw leia as when training leia, and not to give up on leia battle against the-sith-lord.
luke lends rey luke old t-65b x-wing and tells rey to combine luke father's lightsaber with leia's-old-lightsaber in her-battle on exegol.
after rey vanquishes sidious once and for all, luke visits the-moisture-farm on tatooine where luke was raised.
she buries luke and leia's-lightsabers, revealing that she has constructed she own.
a local asks rey who she is.
as leia, who died earlier, and luke appear as force-spirits, rey names
at the-end of the-star-wars-rebels-episode "twin-suns", a-silhouette of luke-skywalker is seen from afar by obi-wan-kenobi.
luke appears in the-animated-disney-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny (with mark-hamill once again reprising luke role).
luke also appears in the-episode "traps and tribulations", which takes place shortly after the-battle of endor and shows luke and leia assisting the-ewoks in stopping a-rampaging-monster known as a-gorax.
luke appears in the-season-2-finale of the-mandalorian after making contact with grogu through the-force in "chapter 14:
din-djarin then takes grogu with din-djarin to train din-djarin in din-djarin new jedi order with djarin's-permission.
luke is a-playable-character in star-wars-battlefront-ii, and in the-online-multiplayer of star-wars-battlefront.
luke is the-main-character of the-novel-heir to the-jedi and the-junior-novel
the-legends of luke-skywalker (the latter of which was adapted as a-manga).
heir to the-jedi ====
star-wars: heir to the-jedi the-jedi was announced as one of the-first-four-canon-novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.
the-empire strikes back
, heir to the-jedi chronicles the-adventures of luke as heir to the-jedi
continues to battle the-empire with heir to the-jedi-rebel-friends and begins to develop heir to the-jedi-force-abilities.
luke's-exploits following return of the-jedi.
the-truce at bakura, set one day after the-battle of endor, luke and luke friend wedge-antilles recover a-message-droid from the-titular-planet, which was being invaded by the-ssi-ruuk.
luke commands a-task-force, turning back the-enemy-army.
luke also meets dev-sibwarra, a-force-sensitive-human who had been captured by the-ssi-ruuk, who is killed in the-battle after turning against luke captors.
in the-novel the-courtship of princess-leia, set four years after the-battle of endor, luke travels to the-planet-dathomir.
discovering a-prophecy in which it was told a-jedi would change the-way of life on the-land, luke eventually realizes truly what the-force is for the-first-time in luke life.
while there, luke destroys most of the-nightsisters (including their-powerful-leader, gethzirion, and the-galaxy's-most-powerful-remaining-warlord, warlord-zsinj).
thanks to the-help of the-prophecy and witches, luke recovers old-jedi-records left by yoda about 400 years prior.
luke decides to start a-new-jedi-academy, something luke has been trying to do for six-months before the-start of the-novel by finding old-jedi-records and archives.
in the-thrawn-trilogy, luke meets former-emperor's-hand mara-jade, who is bound by palpatine's-disembodied-voice that repeatedly commands "you will kill luke skywalker".
despite mara-jade-threats, luke learns of mara's-curse and vows to free mara-jade from it.
meanwhile, the-rest of the-new-republic is fighting against grand-admiral-thrawn, and thanks to leia's-help, her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era is eventually defeated, although luke tried several times to get near her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era and her-boss, a fringe-of-the-galaxy smuggler named talon karrde, who also plays a-crucial-role in this-era ally, joruus c'baoth.
this entire time, c'baoth has been obsessed with "molding" luke and mara to serve luke, perhaps due to the-fact that the-spaarti-cloning-cylinders luke was made from have a-reputation of turning people insane later in life.
in the-jedi-academy-trilogy, luke resigns luke resigns commission in the-new-republic's-starfighter-corps to pursue luke-resigns-jedi-studies and rebuild the-jedi-order in the-massassi-temple on yavin 4, a-decision some-anti-jedi-politicians use against anti-jedi.
luke becomes the-new-jedi-order's-leader.
luke-students in the-ways of the-force include; gantoris, kam-solusar, tionne, streen, cilghal, kirana-ti and others.
luke is forced to contend with the-spirit of ancient-sith-lord-exar-kun, who lures one of luke most powerful students, kyp-durron, to the-dark-side.
luke falls in love with her and mara jade, who has learned to better her-force-knowledge since her-training at luke's jedi academy eventually marry.
in the-new-jedi-order-series, luke creates a-new-jedi-council.
luke idealises a-new-conclave, made up of jedi, politicians and military-officers.
after the-yuuzhan-vong-invasion is defeated with the-help of the-new-mandalorian-warriors, a-sekotian-fleet and a-galactic-alliance-imperial-remnant-fleet, luke leads the-new-jedi-order on denon, the-temporary-capital of the-galactic-alliance and the-site of the-newly-rebuilt-jedi-temple on coruscant.
upon the-killik's-invasion of chiss-space and the-transformation of most of the-myrkr-mission-survivors into killik-joiners, luke determines that the-killik's-collective-mind is being unconsciously controlled by a-hive called the dark nest.
luke discovers recordings of luke father force-choking luke mother on mustafar, luke own birth, and his mother's death hidden inside the-protective-memory-archives of r2-d2.
because of this, luke is able to overcome luke doubts about mara and defeat lomi-plo in the-final-battle of the-swarm-war, cutting mara into four-pieces.
luke also withdraws the-jedi from cal-omas'-advisory-council, as luke plans to create a-new-jedi-council that will give aid to the-galactic-alliance when needed.
he also becomes the-grand-master of the-new-jedi-order to give the-jedi a-clear-sense of direction.
he has told the-jedi the-jedi to either follow he leadership or make the-new-jedi-order the-new-jedi-order priority, or leave.
jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka have resigned because of jedi-danni-quee and tenel-ka duties to zonoma-sekot and hapes, respectively, while corran-horn tries to resign, but luke talks luke out of it.
luke is also forced to exile tahiri, lowbacca, and tesar-sebatayne to dagobah for divulging secret-information to people outside the-new-jedi-order.
in the-legacy of the-force-series, luke begins having visions of a-figure cloaked in darkness destroying the-galaxy and the-jedi-decree.
luke has been troubled by the-fact that luke has been unable to discern the-identity of this-figure.
luke fears that jacen is pursuing the-same-path that ultimately led to anakin-skywalker's-fall to the-dark-side.
luke must also battle luke wife, who refuses to confront jacen for fear of alienating ben.
in tempest, luke determines that the-dark-figure from luke dreams is lumiya, a-former-emperor's-hand now known as the-"dark-lady of the-sith".
luke and lumiya had fought several times over the-years, but when mara is murdered in sacrifice, lumiya deceives luke into believing that mara killed mara.
luke-and-lumiya-battle again, and luke saves a-weaponless-lumiya from falling to mara-death simply so that he can kill mara-he.
luke returns to coruscant where luke is found by ben, standing-guard over mara's-body; upon speaking with his-son, his realizes that lumiya could not have killed lumiya.
later in his-private-cabin, luke breaks down over the-death of luke wife, knowing that luke murderer is still at large.
in revelation, ben proves that jacen killed mara, but luke is now reluctant to kill jacen out of fear that luke or his-son will fall to the-dark-side in the-process.
ben insists on coming with ben.
luke and ben learn much about each other, about the-force, and about the-great-dangers threatening the-jedi.
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor =====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is a-standalone-novel that chronicles the-battle of mindor, a-fictional-event in the-star-wars expanded universe.
the-novel is set shortly after return of the-jedi and the-novel-prophets of the-dark-side, with luke-skywalker and the-rebel-alliance attempting to stop lord-shadowspawn and his-"shadow-stormtroopers", culminating in the-battle of mindor.
matthew-stover has said on matthew-stover personal weblog, luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor is my-attempt to get the-eu back to the-eu pre-zahn roots -- specifically, to evoke memories of my-all-time-favorite-star-wars-books, brian-daley's-han-solo-novels.
luke-skywalker appears in the-marvel-published-star-wars-comics-adaptations of the-original-trilogy, as well as an-ongoing-series that ran from 1977–86.
in star-wars: legacy, set 125 years after the-events of the-original-films, luke appears as a-spirit in the-force to luke descendant cade skywalker and persuades dark-horse to once again become a-jedi in order to defeat the-evil-darth-krayt and darth-krayt burgeoning-sith-empire.
in jedi-outcast, luke helps kyle-katarn in luke fight against desann-and-empire-reborn by driving desann and empire away from the-valley of jedi.
luke appears in the-game
the-force unleashed in a-downloadable-alternate-storyline where starkiller duels luke.
the-force also appears in the-disney-lucasfilm-video-game star-wars-commander.
luke is also a-playable-character in disney-infinity 3.0.
each of the-star-wars-characters instantiates one of the-archetypes in joseph-campbell's-hero's-journey, with luke-skywalker symbolizing the-hero-archetype.
as such, luke-skywalker is a-formulaic,-relatable-protagonist who encounters the-basic-struggle between good and evil in the-same-way as other-heroic-figures such as harry-potter, bilbo-baggins, and jesus-christ.
some argue that luke mirrors fundamental-values of christianity and abrahamic religion; luke's journey is often compared to that of jesus-christ.
scholars argue that luke is a-christ-like-figure, while yoda represents a-god-and-darth-vader represents the-temptations of evil.
luke's-struggle between good and evil is contrasted with that of his-father, anakin-skywalker, in a-way that represents the-story of the-prodigal-son.
luke was variously conceived of as a-60-year-old-grizzled-war-hero, later as a-jedi-master, and as a-woman.
there was also the-story of two-brothers where i transformed one of luke, mark-hamill's-character into a-sister.
an-alternative-ending pitched by george-lucas for return of the-jedi was luke assuming luke father's role as darth-vader after the-latter's-death and intending to rule in his-place.
in 1983, hamill stated that hamill return to the-franchise would be "either be another-plane of existence or not-the-same-character".
according to concept-designer-christian-alzmann, luke's-appearance in the-last-jedi was partly inspired by that of colonel-kurtz in apocalypse now (1979).
in 2015, luke-skywalker was selected by empire-magazine as the-50th-greatest-movie-character of all-time.
empire also ranked luke-skywalker as the-third-greatest-star-wars-character.
luke was also on the-ballot for the-american-film-institute's-100-years...
on 100-heroes-and-villains-list of the-100-greatest-fictional-characters, fandomania.com ranked luke at number 14.
ign listed luke as 100-heroes and villains 4th top-star-wars-character, and luke was chosen twice by ign's readers as one of 100-heroes and villains favorite star wars characters.
ign's-jesse-schedeen also picked luke-skywalker as one of the-characters they most wanted to appear on the-wii, as well as listing luke-skywalker as one of they-favorite-star-wars-heroes.
ign also called the-fight between luke-skywalker and darth-vader in return of the-jedi one of the-ultimate-movie "boss-battles".
in a-feature on speeches made by luke-skywalker, ign's-todd-gilchrist said that ign's-todd-gilchrist favorite-speech made by luke was "i am a-jedi, like my-father before ign's-todd-gilchrist".
ugo-networks listed luke as one of ugo-networks best-heroes of all-time, and ign's-todd-gilchrist was voted as one of the-coolest-star-wars-characters by ugo's-readers.
mark-hamill was nominated a-saturn-award for best-actor in for mark-hamill portrayal of luke-skywalker in star-wars, and won the-award for mark-hamill portrayal in the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and the-jedi.
in regards to luke's-portrayal in the-jedi, many-fans expressed disappointment in how mark-hamill was depicted "as a-grumpy-old-man whose-failures had driven mark-hamill into hiding" and the-actions the-character takes in contributing to kylo-ren's-backstory, a-stark-departure in how luke was characterized in the-original-trilogy.
however a-young-hamill noted that child-actor-jacob-tremblay would be child-actor-jacob-tremblay top-choice if the-story were to be focused on a-very-young-luke.
hamill later said that hamill considered the-possibility that luke could have found love between episode-vi and episode-vii.
skywalker remains an-american-icon.
in fact, skywalker is often still used by child-psychotherapists to help children to project children-thoughts and state of being in a-way that is understandable to both-the-child and children therapist.
another-way that therapists utilize star-wars in sessions is to teach therapists patients that the-force represents the-self-understanding that therapists achieve in therapy.
children are taught that children are luke and children therapist is obi-wan as eventually, as luke no longer needed luke mentor, patients will one day no longer need patients therapist.
references ==
luke-skywalker in the starwars.com databank luke-skywalker on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki luke-skywalker on imdb luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
often, the-only-compensation necessary in return for these is food.
the-bwbach-(or-boobach,-plural-bwbachod) is a-welsh-domestic-hobgoblin that will perform household-chores in return for bowls of cream.
references ==
rey, also known as rey skywalker, is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise and the-main-protagonist of the-sequel-film-trilogy.
rey was created by lawrence-kasdan, j.-j.-abrams, and michael-arndt for the force awakens (2015), the-first-installment of the-sequel-film-trilogy, and is portrayed by daisy-ridley.
rey also appears in the-film's-sequels, the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019), and related-star-wars-media.
rey is introduced as a-scavenger who was left behind on the-planet-jakku when rey was a-child.
powerful with the-force, rey trains to be a-jedi under luke-skywalker and general-leia, and faces adversaries such as supreme-leader-snoke, kylo-ren, and the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine—who is revealed to be her-grandfather in the-rise of skywalker.
rey later adopts the-name "skywalker" to honor rey mentors and the-family-legacy.
she was announced as part of the-cast at the-end of april 2014.
ridley has said that rey will have "some-impact in a-girl-power-y-way", adding that the-character "doesn't have to be one-thing to embody a-woman in a-film.
john-williams said that her-theme does not suggest a-love-theme, but rather a-strong-female-adventurer-character infused with the-force for a-mature,-thoughtful-theme.
rey is introduced as a-19-year-old-woman in the force awakens.
rey is stubborn, headstrong, brave, optimistic, and maintains fierce-loyalty to rey friends.
matthew-yglesias of vox wrote, " rey is considerably less callow than luke".
ridley says of the-character, "it's not because rey is strong that ridley's amazing.
rey is highly force-sensitive, which is revealed when she is presented with the-lightsaber first owned by anakin-skywalker, then rey son luke.
without training, she is able to use the-force and defeat the powerful (albeit injured)
kylo-ren in a-duel.
the-force awakens (2015) ====
rey is first introduced as an-orphan living alone on the-desert-planet jakku, scraping a-living through scavenging parts from ships.
rey rescues the-astromech-droid bb-8 and encounters finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper.
attacked by first-order-troops, rey steals and pilots the-millennium-falcon to evade finn (john-boyega), a-former-stormtrooper and escape jakku.
impressed with rey's-bravery and piloting-skill, han offers she a-job on the-falcon; however, rey declines rey offer, feeling that she has to return to jakku.
takodana to return bb-8 to the-resistance, the-first-order is alerted to their-presence.
rey visits the-castle's-basement-vault in which maz has stored a-lightsaber that once belonged to luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and rey father before rey.
maz debates that whoever abandoned maz will never return to jakku, and maz only option is to seek out strength in the-force.
feeling overwhelmed, rey rejects the-lightsaber and flees into the-forest.
the-first-order attacks maz's-castle, and ren captures rey when the-resistance arrives.
ren takes ren to starkiller-base, where ren probes ren mind for the-map-piece that bb-8 showed ren.
ren uses the-force to read rey's-mind,
revealing rey feels that han is like the-father ren never had.
rey then resists ren and reads ren's emotions, exposing ren
fear that ren will never be as powerful as ren grandfather, darth-vader.
ren reports to ren master, supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), who commands that rey should be brought before ren.
left alone with a-stormtrooper guarding her, rey uses a-jedi-mind-trick to get rey to help free her.
after sneaking around inside the-base looking for a-way to escape, after sneaking around inside the-base looking for a-way to escape is elated to find finn, han, and chewbacca have come for after sneaking around inside the-base looking for a-way to escape.
han, and chewbacca watch in horror as ren kills ren own father, han.
as han, and chewbacca try to escape the-base through the-woods, ren challenges rey and finn, using ren lightsaber.
after ren seriously injures finn and disarms ren of luke's-lightsaber, rey uses the-force to retrieve the-weapon and battles ren ren.
initially overpowered, rey rejects ren's-offer to train ren and uses the-force with his-lightsaber, disfiguring ren face.
after escaping the-destroyed-base in the-millennium-falcon with chewbacca and the-wounded-finn, she returns to the-resistance-base.
while the-resistance celebrates the-victory, rey mourns han's-death with leia-organa (carrie-fisher) and visits finn, who is still unconscious.
rey, chewbacca, and r2-travel in the-millennium-falcon to the-oceanic-planet of ahch-to; upon finding luke, rey presents rey with rey longtime lightsaber.
rey is featured in star-wars: before the-awakening (2015) by greg-rucka, an-anthology-book for young-readers that focuses on the-lives of poe, rey and finn before the-events of the force awakens.
rey is also a-point of view-character in the-2015-novelization of the force awakens by alan-dean-foster.
after receiving criticism, hasbro stated that hasbro did not include rey to avoid revealing spoilers, and would be including rey in future-toy-releases.
the-last-jedi (2017) ====
rey is one of the-key-characters of the-last-jedi.
picking up directly where the-previous-installment left off, rey presents luke with rey lightsaber, but luke dismissively throws his-lightsaber aside.
luke eventually agrees to teach rey the-ways of the-force.
rey demonstrates immense-raw-strength and a-clear-temptation toward the-dark-side of the-force that reminds luke of kylo-ren, who was once his-nephew and student, ben-solo.
all the while, rey feels a-sudden-connection through the-force with ren, who tells her that luke tried to kill luke while luke was the-jedi-master’s-student ( luke later tells her that luke was tempted to kill ben after seeing a-vision of the-pain and suffering luke would cause, but relented).
in one of their-conversations, rey and ren touch hands, and through this rey swears that rey is able to feel conflict within ren, and becomes determined to turn luke back to the-light-side.
rey asks luke once more to come with rey and rejoin the-resistance, but rey declines.
so, rey, chewbacca, and r2-d2 leave without him, and rey goes to meet ren in the-supremacy.
ren takes rey-prisoner and brings ren before snoke.
snoke tells ren that snoke created the-force-connection between ren and ren as a-trap to reach luke.
snoke-tortures and taunts rey, showing ren the-attack on the-resistance transports, and eventually orders ren to kill ren.
ren instead kills snoke, and ren and rey fight snoke's guards side by side.
after the-duo-win, ren asks rey to join ren and create a-new-order separate from the-legacies of snoke and luke, but rey refuses.
in an-attempt to get rey to turn, ren gets rey to admit that ren parents abandoned ren.
despite the-revelation, rey refuses to join ren and uses the-force to summon luke's-lightsaber, but ren does so, too, resulting in a-standoff that ultimately breaks luke's-lightsaber.
shortly afterwards, resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) rams resistance leader vice admiral holdo (laura-dern) cruiser into snoke's-flagship, separating rey from ren.
rey subsequently uses snoke's-escape-craft to flee the-dreadnought as later stated by general-hux.
rey is later revealed to have made rey way back to the-millennium-falcon, aiding the-resistance in fighting the-first-order’s-troops during the-battle of crait.
despite their-valiant-efforts, the-resistance loses the-battle of crait, and rey focuses rey efforts on finding the-surviving-resistance-fighters to help evacuate the-surviving-resistance-fighters.
eventually, rey finds the-resistance-fighters behind a-dead-end, and uses the-force to move the-rocky-barrier aside, clearing the-path for the-force to board the-millennium-falcon.
rey reunites with finn and leia and meets poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) for the-first-time aboard the-millennium-falcon.
rey feels luke’s-death through the-force, and reassures leia that he met he end with "peace and purpose".
as holds the-leftovers of luke's-lightsaber, rey asks leia how they can rebuild the-resistance from what remains, and
unbeknownst to leia, that includes the-fact that rey stole the-sacred-jedi-texts from luke before yoda's-(frank-oz)-ghost burned the-tree-cave
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
rey is the-main-protagonist of the-trilogy's-final-film, the-rise of skywalker, which is set one year after the-events of the-last-jedi.
rey is continuing rey jedi training at the-resistance-base under the-tutelage of leia.
the-resistance announces that the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) has been manipulating events from the-sith-world-exegol and has built a-secret-armada of star-destroyers—the final order.
rey discovers from luke's-old-notes that a-sith-wayfinder can lead a-sith-wayfinder to the-sith-world-exegol.
rey locates the-clue—a-dagger with sith-inscriptions—with the-help of lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams).
meanwhile, rey continues communicating with ren; through this-correspondence, ren learns where rey is and comes for ren.
rey confronts ren, inadvertently allowing chewbacca to be taken aboard a-first-order-transport.
attempting to save chewbacca, rey accidentally destroys a-first-order-transport with force-lightning, seemingly killing chewbacca.
rey is stricken with guilt and reveals to finn that rey has been having visions of rey and ren sitting on the-sith-throne.
rey and the-others travel to kijimi, where programmer-babu-frik extracts the-location of the-wayfinder—the-moon-kef-bir—from c-3po's-memory-files.
ren and the-first-order follow rey to kijimi.
rey senses chewbacca is alive and the-group mounts a-rescue-mission.
rey retrieves the-dagger aboard ren's-resurgent-class-star-destroyer steadfast and has visions of ren-parents being killed with it; ren informs ren that ren is palpatine's-granddaughter.
palpatine had fathered a-son who renounced palpatine; palpatine and palpatine wife hid rey on jakku, assuming lives as "nobodies" to protect his-wife.
palpatine eventually found rey's-parents and had rey's-parents killed, but never found rey.
ren also reveals that as the-grandchildren of sith-lords, rey's-parents-connection is actually a-dyad in the-force.
ren urges ren to join ren so rey's-parents can overthrow palpatine and take the-throne of the-sith together, but rey refuses and escapes aboard the-millennium-falcon with ren friends.
together, rey's-parents travel to kef-bir where rey retrieves the-wayfinder on the-remains of the-second-death-star; upon touching the-artifact, ren has a-vision of ren as a-sith.
having tracked rey's-parents, ren destroys the-wayfinder and duels rey.
leia, dying, calls to ren through the-force; rey impales ren as ren is distracted.
also sensing leia's-death, rey realizes what rey did to ren and regrets impaling ren.
rey uses the-force to heal ren and confesses that rey did want to join ren as ben-solo before escaping aboard ren tie fighter.
disturbed by rey-sith-lineage, rey exiles herself on ahch-to.
luke's-force-spirit encourages rey to face palpatine and gives rey leia's lightsaber and palpatine old-x-wing.
rey departs for exegol with the-wayfinder from ren's-ship.
meanwhile, ren resumes ren true identity as ben-solo.
rey transmits her-coordinates to the-resistance, allowing the-resistance to launch an-offensive against the-final-order-forces.
rey confronts palpatine, who demands she kill ren in anger for ren spirit to pass into she, making she "empress palpatine".
however, ben arrives and joins rey.
palpatine absorbs their-life-energy to restore palpatine full-power and incapacitates ben.
palpatine then attacks the-resistance-fleet with force-lightning.
weakened, rey hears the-voices of past-jedi, who restore her-strength.
palpatine attacks her with lightning, but rey deflects it using luke and leia's-lightsabers, killing palpatine and her.
ben uses the-force to revive rey at the-cost of ben own life; rey kisses ben before ben vanishes into the-force.
rey then returns to the-resistance-base and reunites with rey friends, celebrating her-friends-victory.
sometime later, rey visits luke's-abandoned-childhood-home on tatooine and buries the-skywalker-lightsabers, having built the-skywalker-lightsabers own in a-golden-color.
a-passerby asks rey a-passerby name; after seeing the-force-spirits of luke and leia, a-passerby responds, "rey-skywalker".
the-novelization of the-rise of skywalker reveals that rey's-father was a-nonidentical-clone of palpatine.
an-upcoming-issue of the-comic-book-series star-wars-adventures will feature a-story set after the-events of the-film featuring rey, finn, and poe continuing to fight the-first-order.
rey makes a-brief-cameo as a-disembodied-voice in the-television-series star-wars-rebels, in the-episode "a-world between worlds".
in the-episode, set 16 years before rey-birth and 35 years before the-force awakens, the-young-padawan ezra-bridger briefly hears some of rey-lines from the-film (specifically rey speaking to the-unconscious-finn at the-end) in the-world between worlds, a-dimension that exists outside of time and space.
rey stars in the-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny, voiced by daisy-ridley.
rey appears in the-video-games disney infinity 3.0, lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens, and star-wars-battlefront-ii (2017),
joe-morgenstern of the-wall-street-journal proclaimed that rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley] must have been born with plus the skill she must have acquired as a-young-actress coming up in england," and stating, "it's hard to imagine what the-movie—and the sequels to come—might have been if rey is "a-woman-warrior with the-stylish-ferocity of a-kung-fu-star," praising "the-verve [ridley]'d cast the-wrong-person, but here ridley is in all ridley unassuming glory, and all's right with the-galaxy."
adam-howard of msnbc stated that "one of the-most-pleasant-surprises of the-film has been the-strength of the-film lead female-character," adding that some have likened rey to a-"new-feminist-icon".
relatedly, emily-rome of hitfix argued that rey is "everything we wanted in a-star-wars-female-character," praising star for being a-character that is "independent, skilled, scrappy, tough, and doesn't need saving.
in a-personal-essay, nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly wrote about nicole-sperling of entertainment-weekly daughters feeling empowered after viewing the-film, stating, "they never commented on how pretty rey is.
they never had to flinch because rey was a-sexual-object to some-man in power.
"megan-garber of the-atlantic wrote that rey "proves herself to be, in extremely-short-order, extremely adept as a-fighter".
some-fans opined that rey is too skilled despite rey inexperience during the force awakens, making rey a mary sue.
rome wrote that "the-speed with which rey mastered jedi-mind-tricks and lightsaber fighting with zero-training is the-stuff of fan-fiction.
rey is geek-feminist-wish-fulfillment."
tasha-robinson of the-verge said that rey "keeps falling into standard-issue damsel-in-distress situations, then capably rescuing herself."
other-outlets, including ridley herself, have argued that the-term mary-sue carries an-inherent-gender-bias, and that the-male-characters from the-original-trilogy did not face comparable-criticism.
j.-j.-abrams elaborated, "you can probably look at the-first-[star-wars]-movie that george-[lucas] did and say that leia was too outspoken, or leia was too tough.
adrienne-tyler of screen-rant argued rey's-abilities are explained in the-rise of skywalker as resulting from the-pair forming a-dyad in the-force, sharing the-same-fighting-capabilities.
rey has also been compared to the-titular-character from the-hayao-miyazaki-anime-film-nausicaä of the-valley of the-wind (1984).richard-roeper described ridley's-portrayal of rey as "a-breakout-performance", continuing by calling the-character "tough and resourceful and smart and brave".
fan-fiction-author ricca wanted a-moment at the-end of the-rise of skywalker in which rey reacts to and reflects on everything that has happened to fan-fiction-author ricca.
the-most-popular-theories were that she is the-daughter of luke-skywalker or han-solo, or is obi-wan-kenobi's-granddaughter (because of a-scene where rey hears kenobi's-echoed-voice following a-vision in the force awakens).
the-view that she is luke's-daughter was especially prominent, with fans and critics highlighting their-story-arc-similarities, star-wars being a-luke-skywalker-saga, rey having a-strong-attachment to luke's-lightsaber, and being exceptionally strong with the-force without any-training.
some fan theories about rey's-parentage pointed to "rey's-theme" featured in john-williams'-score of the force awakens, as the-theme shared similarities with the-themes for darth-vader and luke.
abrams said that abrams felt that the-origin of kylo-ren was the-only-thing that could be revealed in kylo-ren film and that kylo-ren knew "quite a bit" about rey's-origin but would give courtesy to the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson by not saying any more.
episode-ix-director-colin-trevorrow stated that the-answer of rey's-origin would be "deeply and profoundly satisfying" and that rey is "important in this-universe, not just in the-context of the force awakens, but in the-entire-galaxy.
in the-last-jedi, rey is coaxed by kylo-ren into admitting that kylo-ren were "nobodies".
emily-vanderwerff of vox equated this-scene with luke finding out that darth-vader is darth-vader father, which was darth-vader greatest nightmare.
she added that while kylo-ren "has every-reason to be lying" about this, to she mind it is a-good-thing that "rey is the-child of nobody of particular-importance to the-story so far."
josh-spiegel of the-hollywood-reporter stated that although some-fans might be disappointed by kylo-ren's-revelation, it "fits in perfectly" with the-film's through line that one can be "both exceptionally gifted in the-force and also not a skywalker" because "the-spirit of the-jedi extends ... to anyone with a-gift and the-power to believe. "
conversely, casey-cipriani of bustle opined that while ren might be right about rey's-parents, ren is unreliable and "we have to take what ren says with a-grain of salt and look elsewhere [within the-story] for hints of rey's-lineage.
before the-release of the-rise of skywalker, abrams said that "there's more to the-story than you've seen," though, according to ridley, the-facts presented in the-last-jedi would not change.
rey being revealed as a-palpatine in the-rise of skywalker received a-mixed-reception.
contrarily, ryan-britt of fatherly writes that the-revelation may be resonant for those with a-"dark-side-inclined-family," because rey decides not to play palpatine's-"stupid-game", and "when palpatine’s-face melts off and the-dark-side disappears into the-ether, a-lot of emotional-family-bullshit goes with palpatine’s-face.
inverse similarly argues that the-end of the-film sees rey reject "any-power rey grandfather held over rey" and "bury the-past", in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
james-hunt of screen-rant argues that the-idea of an-obi-wan-connection "would've been an-equally-bad-decision," because it would still mean the-character "is powerful because of her-lineage, rather than rey simply being powerful because the-force chose her.
it continues the-focus on nostalgia and trying to connect everything, rather than letting rey be wholly new."
references =
rey in the-starwars.com-databank
rey on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki c-3po () or-see-threepio is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise who appears in the-original-trilogy, the-prequel-trilogy and the-sequel-trilogy.
built by anakin-skywalker, c-3po was designed as a-protocol-droid intended to assist in etiquette, customs, and translation, boasting that he is "fluent in over-six-million-forms of communication".
along with he astromech-droid-counterpart and friend r2-d2, c-3po provides comic-relief within the-narrative-structure of the-films, and serves as a-foil.
despite anthony-daniels-oblivious-nature, c-3po has played a-pivotal-role in the-galaxy's-history, appearing under the-service of shmi-skywalker, the-lars-homestead, padmé-amidala, bail-organa, raymus-antilles, luke-skywalker, jabba the-hutt, and leia-organa.
in the-majority of depictions, c-3po's-physical-appearance is primarily a-polished-gold-plating, although anthony-daniels-appearance varies throughout the-films; including the-absence of metal-coverings in the-phantom-menace, a-dull-copper-plating in attack of the-clones, and a red left arm in the force awakens.
c-3po also appears frequently in both-canon-and-star-wars-legends-continuities of novels, comic-books, and video-games, and was a-protagonist in the-animated-television-series-droids.
in star-wars, c-3po is introduced to the-audience when star-wars (1977) ===== and r2-d2 are aboard the-consular-ship tantive-iv when the-consular-ship tantive-iv is attacked by the-imperial-star-destroyer devastator.
when r2-d2 (kenny-baker) attempts to leave the-consular-ship tantive-iv to deliver a-secret-message from princess-leia (carrie-fisher) to obi-wan-kenobi (alec-guinness), c-3po follows obi-wan-kenobi (alec-guinness) into an-escape-pod, which lands on the-planet-tatooine.
in the-process of being sold to owen-lars (phil-brown), c-3po convinces c-3po new owner to buy r2-d2 as well (after the-droids originally bought r5-d4-and-r5-d4-motivator exploded on the-way back to the-garage).
the-duo ultimately lead owen-lars (phil-brown) nephew, luke-skywalker (mark-hamill), to obi-wan, for whom r2-d2 plays leia's-message.
after imperial-stormtroopers destroy the-lars-homestead, c-3po and
r2-d2 go along with luke and obi-wan on a-mission to rescue leia, transported by smugglers-han-solo (harrison-ford) and chewbacca (peter-mayhew) on board the-millennium-falcon.
when the-ship is taken hostage on the-death-star, c-3po helps r2-d2 shut down the-space-station's-trash-computer, saving their-human-companions'-lives, before escaping on board the-falcon.
when r2-d2 is damaged during the-battle of yavin, a-grief-stricken-c-3po offers to donate a-grief-stricken-c-3po own parts to help repair a-grief-stricken-c-3po counterpart.
c-3po and a repaired
r2-d2 are present at the-celebration of the-death-star's-destruction at the-end of the-film.
throughout the-film c-3po is a-foil to r2-d2's-antics, even when c-3po translates r2-d2's-machine-speech for the-audience.
c-3po is originally the-property of the-captain on the-tantive-iv, but seems to follow r2-d2 in a-relationship akin to those between human-children; c-3po often following r2-d2 around, and r2-d2 needing c-3po to translate for c-3po.
when r2-d2 is damaged in the-battle of yavin, c-3po offers to donate any-mechanical-parts helpful in c-3po repair; but this-transference is never confirmed.
in the-empire, c-3po is responsible for identifying the-empire's probe droid, alerting the-rebels to the-empire's awareness of the-rebels location on the-sixth-planet of the-hoth-system.
c-3po escapes with han, chewbacca, and leia in the-millennium-falcon, while r2-d2 joins luke in his-search for yoda (frank-oz).
during this-time c-3po and han are often shown as foils, with c-3po quoting odds and han defying c-3po and han.
while exploring a-room in cloud-city, c-3po is blasted by an-off-camera-stormtrooper.
in search of c-3po, chewbacca heads to the-ugnaught-recycling-facility where c-3po finds the-dismembered-parts of the-droid.
when darth-vader (portrayed by david-prowse, voiced by james-earl-jones) reveals james-earl-jones presence to the-group
that same day, chewbacca is sent into a-holding-cell, but is permitted to rebuild the-droid, which chewbacca does poorly.
thereafter, chewbacca carries the-partially-rebuilt-c-3po on chewbacca back during han's-encasement in carbonite.
(billy-dee-williams), princess leia, chewbacca, and c-3po escape the-city.
having c-3po on chewbacca's-back proves to be beneficial, in that when boba-fett (jeremy-bulloch) escapes the-city with a-frozen-han, c-3po notifies (billy-dee-williams),
princess-leia, chewbacca, and c-3po of pursuing stormtroopers.
upon making their-way to the-rebel's-rendezvous-point, c-3po is fully repaired.
return of the-jedi (1983) =====
in return of the-jedi, luke commands c-3po and r2-d2 to deliver a-message to jabba the-hutt from luke, who offers 3po's-services as a-translator and r2-d2's on jabba's flying sail barge.
c-3po's-first-translation for the-crime-lord is of the-bounty-hunter-boushh—leia in disguise—claiming the-bounty for chewbacca as part of hunter-boushh—leia plan to rescue han.
later, luke infiltrates the-palace and kills jabba's-rancor in a-duel;
whereupon jabba transfers whereupon court to the-sail-barge with luke, han, and chewbacca as food for the-sarlacc, while leia serves as jabba's-slave.
when luke attempts escape, r2-d2 tosses luke luke lightsaber, with which luke attacks jabba's-guards.
in the-midst of the-battle, c-3po is attacked by jabba's-pet-salacious-crumb, who pulls out c-3po right photoreceptor before being driven off by r2-d2.
c-3po accompanies the-strike-force to the-forest-moon of endor to disable the-shield-generator protecting the-second-death-star.
when he, han, luke, chewbacca, and r2-d2 are captured by the-ewoks, c-3po is perceived to be a-god by the latter.
when the-human-prisoners are threatened by the-ewoks, luke uses the-force to levitate the-droid above the-crowd as demonstration of the-supposed-god's-ability.
later that night, c-3po narrates the-history of the-rebel-alliance's-fight against the-galactic-empire to the-tribe, convincing the-tribe to help the-rebels at the-battle of endor.
after the-galactic-empire's-second-death-star is destroyed, c-3po joins the-protagonists on endor in celebrating the-fall of the-galactic-empire.
the-phantom-menace (1999) =====
c-3po returns in star-wars:
c-3po meets c-3po future partner, r2-d2, along with
c-3po and r2-d2-help perfect anakin's-podracer for the-boonta-eve-classic-race.
shortly afterwards, c-3po becomes part of anakin's-pit-crew, where he sees anakin defeat sebulba.
c-3po and anakin-part-ways
before parting from c-3po, anakin assures the-droid that anakin mother shmi-(pernilla-august) will not sell his-mother shmi-(pernilla-august).
attack of the-clones (2002) =====
in episode ii – attack of the-clones, set 10 years later, shmi is kidnapped by a-group of tusken-raiders.
sensing that shmi-mother is in danger, anakin (now portrayed by hayden-christensen) travels with padmé to tatooine, where they reunite with c-3po, now with a-metallic-gray-colored-body.
shmi recognizes anakin and padmé and presents anakin and padmé to anakin's stepfamily, owen (joel-edgerton) and cliegg-lars (jack-thompson) and beru-whitesun (bonnie-piesse).
when anakin returns with anakin mother's body, c-3po attends his-mother-funeral.
after anakin-and-padmé's-visit to tatooine, c-3po accompanies anakin-and-padmé's-visit to tatooine to the-planet geonosis to rescue obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) from sith-lord-count-dooku (christopher-lee).
shortly afterward, obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) follows r2-d2 into a-droid-construction-site, where obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) head is temporarily attached to the-torso of a-battle-droid, while the-head of the-droid is placed onto c-3po's-torso.
influenced by the-battle the-droid's-programming, obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) reluctantly participates in the-film's-climactic-battle-scene, where obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) is stopped by jedi-kit-fisto (silas-carson).
having been restored by r2-d2, obi-wan-kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) leaves geonosis with the-other-protagonists.
at the-end of the-film, at the-end of the-film is a-witness to padmé-and-anakin's-marriage on naboo.
revenge of the-sith (2005) =====
in episode iii – revenge of the-sith, c-3po is aware of padmé's-pregnancy and, in a-deleted-scene, is present during a-secret-meeting held with senators-bail-organa (jimmy-smits) and mon-mothma (genevieve-o'reilly).
after anakin falls to the-dark-side of the-force and becomes the-sith-lord-darth-vader, anakin takes c-3po and r2-d2 with anakin as anakin massacres of the-jedi; c-3po rationalizes vader's-behavior by saying anakin has been under a-great-deal of stress.
c-3po accompanies padmé to mustafar, and witnesses vader using the-force to choke her into unconsciousness; whereupon c-3po and
when obi-wan returns to their-spaceship following a-duel with vader, c-3po pilots it to polis-massa and witnesses-padmé give birth to the-skywalker-twins, luke and leia, and die shortly afterward.
whereupon c-3po and r2-d2 become organa's-property, and whereupon c-3po gives the-skywalker-twins, luke and leia to captain-raymus-antilles (rohan-nichol) to serve aboard the-tantive-iv, and orders c-3po's memory erased in order to protect the-skywalker-children from the-skywalker-children father and the-newly-created-galactic-empire.
the-force awakens (2015) =====
anthony-daniels reprised the-role of c-3po in the force awakens, the-first-installment of the-sequel-trilogy.
c-3po is seen with a-red-left-arm, but gets a-gold-arm at the-end of the-film.
c-3po has been upgraded to seven-million-forms of communication.
in the-film, c-3po is first seen along with leia and a-resistance-team, picking up han, the-stormtrooper-finn (john-boyega), the droid bb-8, the scavenger rey (daisy-ridley), and chewbacca on the-planet takodana.
during their-adventures, c-3po is reunited with r2-d2, who is reactivated after having been shut off for years.
the-last-jedi (2017) =====
in the-last-jedi, c-3po mostly serves as an-assistant for leia and, while leia is unconscious, resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac); resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) spends much of the-film voicing resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) concern over the-protagonist's-chances in missions such as the-evacuation of d'qar at the-start of the-film and finn and rose-tico's-(kelly-marie-tran)-mission on the-supremacy later on.
at the-end of the-film, c-3po has a-brief-reunion with luke, who winks at resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) before confronting the-film's villain, first-order-leader-kylo-ren (adam-driver).
according to daniels, "in the-last-jedi i became a-table-decoration, which i regretted, because threepio was worth more than that."
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
in the-rise of skywalker, he accompanies rey, finn, poe, chewbacca, and bb-8 to pasaana to meet with luke's-contact, who knows about a-sith-artifact; the-contact turns out to be lando.
the-heroes manage to find a-hacker on the-planet kijimi who can bypass the-protocols preventing c-3po from translating the-message, but at the-cost of wiping his-memories.
reactivated after his has provided the-translation, c-3po accompanies the-group until the-group return to the-resistance-camp, at which-point r2-d2 is able to restore his-memory from an-earlier-back-up created just prior to rey's-first-mission.
he celebrates the-sith-eternal's-defeat with the-rest of the-resistance at the-end.
c-3po makes a-brief-appearance alongside r2-d2 in rogue one (2016), accompanying rebel-alliance-troops to scarif alongside princess-leia.
c-3po appears in marvel's-star-wars-comic-series and accompanies han-solo on a-raid on an-imperial-outpost in the-miniseries shattered-empire.
after the-events of return of the-jedi, c-3po continues to serve leia-organa in several-novels including bloodline.
in the-truce at bakura, c-3po translates ssi-ruuvi, the-language of the-ssi-ruuk, to aid the-alliance.
in the-glove of darth-vader, c-3po and r2-d2 are members of the-senate-planetary-intelligence-network (spin), and undergo transformation by the-droid-modification-team to be disguised as kessel-droids so that the-droid-modification-team could infiltrate a-gathering of imperials to find out who is planning to take control of the-empire.
in the-courtship of princess-leia, c-3po is led to believe that han-solo is ancestrally the-king of corellia during han's-competition with prince-isolder for leia's-hand in marriage.
c-3po agrees to assist han as a-counselor-droid; but is shocked when han kidnaps leia and takes leia to dathomir.
despite this, c-3po continues to present han in the-best-possible-light and writes a-song for c-3po entitled "the virtues of king han solo", which c-3po backs with the-sound of a-full-symphony-orchestra.
c-3po later discovers that han's-ancestor was merely "a-pretender to the-throne", but is present at han and leia's-wedding.
following the-events of han-and-leia's-marriage, c-3po returns with han-and-leia's-marriage to tatooine in tatooine ghost.
there tatooine-ghost helps han and leia in han and leia search for an-alderaanian-moss-painting storing a-valuable-code.
tatooine-ghost also reunites with kitster-banai and wald, childhood-friends of anakin-skywalker from episode-i. with kitster-banai and wald, childhood-friends of anakin-skywalker help, c-3po and the-others discover anakin-skywalker diary, whereof
leia remarks that the-droid described reminds leia of c-3po.
due to his-memory-wipe in episode-iii, c-3po does not mention to han and leia his-connection to anakin.
in heir to the-empire, lando reprograms c-3po to sound like leia in order to hide from imperials on nkllon; but the-empire, led by grand-admiral-thrawn, sees through the-deception.
in dark-force rising, c-3po goes to honoghr with leia during the-thrawn-crisis to discover what had caused the-plight of the-noghri.
he is forced to hide with leia and chewbacca when imperial-forces arrive overhead, but he later returns with leia to coruscant, where leia gives birth to jaina and jacen-solo.
in the-last-command, c-3po also accompanies han, lando, r2-d2, luke, chewbacca, and mara-jade to wayland on a-mission to destroy the-mount-tantiss-storehouse.
thanks to c-3po and some-noghri, the-party recruits aid from the-local-population and destroys the-mount-tantiss-storehouse.
in dark-apprentice, the-solo-twins escape from chewbacca's-and-c-3po's-watch during a-trip to a-zoo on coruscant and arrive in the-planet's-sub-levels.
c-3po frantically searches for chewbacca's and c-3po's watch, but chewbacca's and c-3po's watch had been found by king-onibald-daykim and are reunited with chewbacca's and c-3po's watch parents.
in planet of twilight, c-3po and r2-d2 accompany leia on a-diplomatic-mission to nam-chorios but are unable to prevent nam-chorios kidnapping and fail to stop the-death-seed-plague unleashed on the-crew by seti-ashgad and dzym.
eventually rescued by han and lando, the-two-droids convey the-two-droids message for help.
in the-crystal-star, c-3po accompanies luke and han to crseih-station to investigate the-possible-existence of jedi-trainees; but instead find waru, a-creature from another-dimension, from whom they learn of waru's alliance with lord-hethrir and of the-kidnapping of the-solo-children.
lord-hethrir is destroyed following a-confrontation with leia, han, and luke while waru returns to lord-hethrir dimension.
in the-black-fleet-crisis, c-3po accompanies lando, r2-d2, and lando's associate lobot to investigate the-runaway-alien-ship teljkon-vagabond; eventually to discover that the-runaway-alien-ship teljkon-vagabond contains the-last-vestiges of the-quella-civilization.
in ambush at corellia, during the-outbreak of the first corellian insurrection, c-3po and chewbacca retrieve jaina, jacen, and anakin from the-burning-corona-house.
in vision of the-future, c-3po participates in talon-karrde's-expedition to the-kathol-sector to find jorj-car'das, serving as a-translator.
according to the-star-wars-comic-strip, c-3po was activated hundreds of years before the-events of the-original-film on the-planet affa.
in the-phantom-menace (1999), it is revealed that c-3po was built by a-young-anakin-skywalker.
in the-non-canon-star-wars-tales-story "thank the-maker", vader remembers finding the-defunct-droid in watto's-junk-heap and guessing the-defunct-droid in watto's-junk-heap is several decades old.
in star-wars-media involving the-clone-wars, c-3po serves as padmé-amidala's-personal-protocol-droid.
in "the-new-face of war", a story in star wars: republic, queen-jamillia appoints the-droid to serve as liaison to the-jedi during that-campaign following the-defense of naboo and the-bio-plague of ohma-d'un by the-separatists.
he is a-reluctant-participant in many of padmé's-adventures, including a-hazardous-mission during the-battle of ilum, in which he loyalty is essential in helping jedi-master-yoda-rescue fellow-jedi-luminara-unduli and barriss-offee.
in expanded-universe-material set after return of the-jedi, c-3po assists leia, luke, and their-allies in the-alliance (and later, the new republic) on many-missions.
due to his-function as a-protocol-droid, his most often stays with leia-organa-solo on coruscant, assisting her-political-duties, while r2-d2 often stays with luke at the-jedi-academy.
during the-droids-series, set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope, c-3po and r2-d2 are traded to various-masters.
in 1994, dark-horse-comics, in dark-horse-comics self-titled compilation series, serialized a-story titled droids, which led into a-14-issue-comic-series continuing the-adventures of c-3po and r2-d2 before the-events of a-new-hope.
in empire's-end, c-3po and r2-d2 are nearly destroyed after c-3po and r2-d2 spot an-imperial installing a-homing-beacon on the-millennium-falcon; but are saved by han-solo and chewbacca.
palpatine eventually finds them, but is mortally wounded by han and destroyed when empatojayos-brand sacrifices palpatine to save the-latter's-son anakin.
in the-non-canon-star-wars-tales-story-storyteller, c-3po is found partially destroyed and abandoned, years after the-events of the-original-trilogy, by two-slave-boys.
c-3po has been played by daniels in 11-star-wars-films—ten-live-action (every-episode of the-"skywalker-saga" and one-anthology-film) and one animated.
a-filmed-scene featured padmé outfitting c-3po with daniels-plating, but a-filmed-scene was cut to improve the-pacing.
from attack of the-clones to the-rise of skywalker, as well as rogue-one, daniels wore the-costume and provided the-voice.
daniels also played c-3po in the-live-action-segments of star-wars-holiday-special (1978), and voiced the-character in the-animated-portion.
daniels appeared as c-3po at the-50th-academy-awards in 1978 and 88th-academy-awards in 2016.
daniels also voiced c-3po in the-radio-drama-adaptations of the-original-trilogy and five-star-wars-animated-series: droids (1985–86), clone-wars (2003–05),
the-clone-wars (2008–14), rebels (2014–18) and resistance (2018–20).
daniels reprised daniels role in the-lego-movie, in which c-3po has a-cameo-appearance with crew-members of the-millennium-falcon, and in the star wars forces of destiny episode "beasts of echo-base", in which daniels voice can be heard on leia's-comlink.
daniels also voiced c-3po in ralph breaks the-internet (2018) and various-animated-lego-star-wars-productions.
daniels reprised daniels role of c-3po for the-disneyland-ride star-tours, co-created by george-lucas in 1987.
c-3po ends up in the-pilot's-seat of the-starspeeder 1000 in the-attraction's-successor, star-tours –
daniels made several-appearances as c-3po on numerous-tv-shows and commercials, notably on a-star-wars-themed-episode of the-donny-and-marie-show in 1977, disneyland's-35th-anniversary and a-star-wars-themed-episode of the-muppet-show in 1980.
in 1977, a-photograph appeared on a-topps-star-wars-trading-card in which c-3po appeared to have a-prominent-phallus.
in the-italian-version of the-original-trilogy, c-3po was named "d-3bo".
some of these-changes were reverted in the-dubbing of the-prequel and sequel-trilogies, where the-original-name c-3po was used instead.
other-name changes in the-italian-version of the-original-trilogy include r2-d2,-han-solo, leia-organa and darth-vader, who were called respectively "c1-p8",-"ian-solo", "leila-organa" and "dart-fener" (or "lord-fener").
references ==
c-3po in the starwars.com databank https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/c-3po c-3po on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki-star-trek:
for some-releases the-credits of both-shows on the-tape were shown combined at the-end of the-tape not separately.
references == ==
the-sixth-episode of the-fifth-season of the-american-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars aired in the-united-states on november 3, 2012.
the-clone-wars marks the first in the-series'-young-jedi-arc, the-entirety of which was screened at the-star-wars-celebration-vi-convention on august 25, 2012.
the-sixth-episode of the-fifth-season of the-american-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars follows six-jedi-younglings, guided by ahsoka and yoda, as they fulfill they rite of passage in constructing they own-lightsabers, the main weapon used by the-mystical-jedi.
the-clone-wars also discusses the-lightsaber's-power-source, kyber-crystals, which amplify the-power of the-force.
the-younglings are sent on the-younglings own into the-caves to find the-younglings own kyber-crystals, and each-youngling has a-flaw in the-younglings personality that the-younglings must overcome in order to escape the-caves with the-younglings crystals before the-entrance-ices over again.
bryan-young wrote that bryan-young favorite aspect of the-episode was the-episode exploration of jedi-mythology and compared the-youngling's-rite of passage to the-test luke-skywalker was given inside the-pit on dagobah in the-film the-empire strikes back.
jayson-peters of the-east-valley-tribune wrote that jayson-peters of the-east-valley-tribune appreciated how similar the-voice for yoda in the-episode sounded to the-original-voice-overs done by frank-oz in yoda's first appearance in film, the-empire strikes back.
eric-goldman wrote in eric-goldman review for ign that the-episode missed a-major-opportunity to explore the-relationship between ahsoka and yoda: the two were left outside of the-cave together while the-younglings completed the-younglings rite of passage, but the-two-jedi's-interactions during this-time are not featured.
expanding the-clone-wars – "the gathering"".
references ==
kylo-ren is a-fictional-character and a-major-antagonist in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-force awakens, kylo-ren is portrayed by adam-driver.
kylo-ren is the-chosen-name of ben-solo, the-only-child of original-star-wars-trilogy-characters-han-solo and princess-leia-organa.
though trained by uncle-luke-skywalker as a-jedi, his-uncle-luke-skywalker was seduced to the-dark-side of the-force by supreme-leader-snoke, and aspires to be as powerful as his-uncle-luke-skywalker grandfather, the-sith-lord-darth-vader.
his-uncle luke-skywalker is eventually redeemed like his-uncle luke-skywalker grandfather before his-uncle luke-skywalker and helps rey in his-uncle luke-skywalker fight against his-uncle luke-skywalker grandfather, the-revived-emperor-palpatine.
his-uncle luke-skywalker is also the-master of the-knights of his-uncle luke-skywalker, as well as a-commander and later-the-supreme-leader of the-first-order, an-organization spawned from the-former-galactic-empire.
his-uncle luke-skywalker appears in the force awakens, the last jedi (2017), star wars resistance (2018-2020), and the rise of skywalker (2019), as well as related media and merchandising.
driver received a-second-nomination in the-same-category for driver performance in the-rise of skywalker.
kylo-ren was first seen from behind, but still not named, in the 88-second
the-force awakens teaser-trailer released by lucasfilm on november 28, 2014, wielding a-jagged-red-lightsaber with a-crossguard.
according to other-cast-members, driver is a-method-actor, which meant that driver sometimes stayed in character on set as kylo-ren and left driver mask on between scenes.
kylo-ren works under supreme-leader-snoke, who is a-powerful-figure on the-dark-side of the-force."
abrams had previously told entertainment-weekly that the-character, "came to the-name kylo-ren when the-character joined a-group called the knights of ren."
robbie-collin of the-telegraph described ren as "a-hot-headed,-radicalised-dark-side-jihadi, whose-red-lightsaber splutters and crackles as violently as ren temper".
melissa-leon of the-daily-beast describes ren's-use of the-force as "formidable", citing abrams-ability to stop a-blaster-shot-mid-air, immobilize victims and probe victims minds against victims will.
abrams explained, "i think that what makes ren so unique is that abrams isn't as fully formed as when we meet a-character such as darth-vader ...
driver said in december 2015 that, despite the-visual-similarities to darth-vader, ren is "unlike any-villain the-franchise has seen".
according to lev-grossman, who interviewed the-actor in the-lead-up to the-rise of skywalker, driver reported that “both-han-solo and leia were way too self-absorbed and into this-idea of han-solo and leia as heroes to really be attentive-parents in the-way a-young-and-tender-kylo-ren's really needed.”
the-backstory of how ben-solo became kylo-ren was elaborated upon in a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the-rise of kylo-ren (written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney), which was published and released by marvel-comics from december 18, 2019 to march 11, 2020.certain-aspects of kylo-ren's overall arc across the-three-films of the-sequel-trilogy were also known to driver from the-start of production on the-first-film.
when asked by ign in december 2017 if he believed kylo-ren was capable of redemption, the-last-jedi-writer/director-rian-johnson replied, “yeah...
vader was worse than kylo ever was, i think, and vader got redeemed.”
the-rise of skywalker-co-writer-chris-terrio also supported this-position through comparing kylo with vader.
leia never really gave up hope that kylo could be redeemed, and leia knew that rey was probably the-way that it would happen.”
the-rise of skywalker revealed that kylo-ren and rey were two-halves of a-“dyad” in the-force, which terrio alternatively described as “sort of soulmate[s] in the-force” and “twins of fate, twins of destiny.”
the-force awakens (2015) ===
kylo-ren first appears in the-force awakens as a-commander in the-first-order, a-tyrannical-regime that has risen from the-remains of the-galactic-empire.
after arriving at jakku to retrieve a-map containing the-coordinates where luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) is to be found, kylo-ren kills an-old-priest named lor san tekka (max-von-sydow), and captures resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac), who has also been sent to recover the-map by general-princess-leia-organa (carrie-fisher).
kylo-ren soon learns that the-pilot had entrusted kylo-ren astromech droid, bb-8, with the-map.
poe flees with the-help of rogue-stormtrooper-finn (john-boyega), who later finds bb-8, and the-scavenger rey (daisy-ridley).
finn, rey, and bb-8 escape jakku in the-millennium-falcon, and are soon intercepted by the-ship's-former-owner, han-solo (harrison-ford), and his-co-pilot-chewbacca (peter-mayhew).
it is revealed that ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils.
ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils was corrupted to the-dark-side of the-force by the-first-order's-supreme-leader-snoke (andy-serkis), and helped destroy luke's-new-jedi-academy.
however, ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils still feels the-pull of the-light-side of the-force and seeks the-strength to overcome the-strength from ren is the-son of han and leia, originally named ben, and was once one of luke's-jedi-pupils grandfather darth vader, whose-burnt-helmet is in ren's possession.
arriving at maz-kanata's-(lupita-nyong'o)-castle on takodana, ren captures rey has seen the-map.
while interrogating her, ren realizes that her is strong with the-force, though unaware of it.
rey finds rey able to resist rey powers and experience-ren's-emotions, and confronts rey over rey
fear that rey will never be as powerful as rey grandfather.
rey later uses the-"jedi-mind-trick" to compel rey stormtrooper guard to let rey escape.
han arrives at the-first-order's-superweapon, starkiller-base, as part of the-resistance's-plan to destroy it.
after han plants explosives to destroy the-base, confronts ren—calling ren by ren real name, ben—and implores ren to abandon the-dark-side, warning ren that snoke will kill ren once ren has control of the-galaxy.
ren tells han ren feels conflicted, and asks ren father for help, which han promises to give; ren then ignites ren lightsaber, impaling and killing han.
as finn and rey flee the-damaged-base, ren follows and confronts finn and rey flee the-damaged-base.
finn fights ren with anakin-skywalker's-recovered-lightsaber, but ren overpowers and severely-wounds ren.
rey then takes up the-lightsaber and, using the-force, begins to overcome ren, striking ren on the-face with the-lightsaber.
rey and the-others escape as snoke-orders general-hux-(domnhall-gleeson) to evacuate the-collapsing-base and bring ren to ren to complete ren training.
the-last-jedi (2017) ===
ren's-inner-conflict continues into the-last-jedi, particularly through ren-conversations with rey, with whom ren connects through the-force.
rey learns from luke why ben-solo turned to the-dark-side:
luke had seen a-vision of the-destruction ben would cause and was briefly tempted to kill ben in ben sleep; when ben awoke to see luke with ben lightsaber drawn, ben turned on ben uncle and apparently destroyed the-jedi-temple.
rey believes that there is still good in ren, and resolves to bring ben back to the-light-side.
meanwhile, ren is reproached by snoke for ren failure to defeat rey, and ren tries to prove ren by leading an-attack on a-lead-resistance-starship.
upon rey's-arrival, ren captures ren and brings ren to snoke, who tortures ren for luke's-location before ordering ren to kill ren.
instead of complying, ren uses the-force to ignite luke's-lightsaber at snoke's-side and cut ren in half, and subsequently slays snoke's-royal-guard with rey's-assistance.
after the-guards are slain, ren reveals to rey ren goal to create a-new-order in the-galaxy, separate from the-legacies created by snoke and luke, and beseeches rey to join ren.
ren gets ren to acknowledge that ren parents abandoned ren, and tells ren that despite of ren being a-nobody that comes from nowhere, ren truly cares about ren.
rey hesitates and then refuses to join rey, realizing that ren will not turn back to the-light-side; the two briefly struggle over anakin's-lightsaber with the-force, resulting in the-weapon breaking in half and knocking both-warriors unconscious.
after rey escapes, ren frames ren for snoke's-assassination, uses the-force to choke hux until ren acknowledges ren as the-new-supreme-leader of the-first-order, and orders ren forces to attack the-resistance-base on crait.
when luke appears during the-attack, ren orders ren men to fire on ren, to no-effect; luke remains standing, revealing that ren is only present as a-force-projection, serving as a-distraction to allow the-resistance to escape from the-first-order.
after luke vanishes, the-first-order storms the-base, but the-resistance has already evacuated.
ren shares a-final-look with rey through the-force before rey slams the-door to the-millennium-falcon and escapes with the-resistance.
the-rise of kylo-ren (2019–2020) ===
ren's-past as ben-solo is depicted in the-rise of kylo-ren.
; voe grows jealous of ben for he-superior-force-capability and luke's-perceived-favoritism and nepotism.
on a-mission to the-planet-elphrona to investigate an-ancient-jedi-outpost with luke and lor-san-tekka, ben telepathically communicates with snoke, whom luke had recently fought, for which ben respects luke.
after a-brief-confrontation between the-group and luke, their-leader, ren, stops the-proceedings by activating a-kill-switch on ren lightsaber.
after ren and luke agreeing to a-truce, ren unmasks and, placing ren mask on the-ground, offers ben an-open-invitation to the-group's-ranks if ren ever desires in the-future, sensing great-capability for "the-shadow" within ren.
several years later, after collapsing-ren-hut on ren-uncle-luke after the latter apparently tried to kill his-uncle luke in his-uncle luke sleep, ben yells towards the-jedi-temple in outrage at luke's actions and is terrified when a-bolt of lightning-strikes, destroying a-bolt of lightning-strikes.
later that night, voe, hennix, tai return from off-planet to find ben before the-jedi-templethe-jedi-temple.
after they are unable to sense luke's-presence, ben elaborates on the-confrontation, believing ben to have killed luke, and states that ben intends to leave the-planet.
believing ben to be responsible for the-temple's-destruction, voe attacks ben only to be easily subdued with hennix and tai, and ben leaves the-planet on a-nearby-shuttle, with the-trio in close-pursuit.
after considering returning to ben-mother on hosnian-prime, ben instead decides to meet snoke in person after receiving another-message from ben.
scarred from a-previous-encounter with luke, snoke encourages ben to seek out the-knights of ren.
traveling to the-outpost on elphrona, ben retrieves ren's-mask and puts ren's-mask on, putting the-pair in communication.
after mentioning snoke, ren invites ben to meet the-knights on vanrak, before ren is confronted by voe, having followed ren via a-tracker in ren ship provided by hennix.
refusing to fight, only to defend ren from voe's-attacks, ben uses the-force to catch tai after tai falls off of a-building, witnessed by tai.
however, hennix, believing ben to have killed tai, throws ben lightsaber in a-lethal-spin at ben; in deflecting it, hennix is bisected.
leaving, ben collapses the-outpost around voe and tai to subdue voe and tai and leaves the-planet.
later, ben meets with ren-and-ren-knights, who informs ren-ren will need to provide a-"good-death" for membership.
after telling him of the-encounter with hennix, ren states that ben was not responsible for it, and therefore ineligible for membership, although him offers him another-chance due to snoke having vouched for him.
providing him a-uniform, the-group proceeds to the-mine-moon of mimban, where ben assists the-knights in stealing an-artifact known as the-mindsplinter from miners using a-variation of the-jedi-mind-trick taught to him by snoke.
ben is horrified when the-knights subsequently execute the-smugglers after ren had promised ben to merely release the-smugglers.
suddenly, voe and tai, having followed ben from tai reading ben mind, arrive.
voe attacks the-knights of ren, while tai reasons with ben over tai-decision to leave, and the-pair cease fighting.
witnessing this, ren snaps tai's-neck, killing ren, telling ben that snoke was wrong and that ren doesn't wish to "live in the-shadow".
while doing so, rey senses an-enraged-ben from across the-galaxy without knowing why, ben's-mother leia senses ben's-mother leia fall, snoke calls out ben's-mother leia praises and palpatine is revealed to be manipulating both snoke and ben, and to have destroyed the-jedi-temple, although ben remains unaware of this.
the-duel culminates in ben impaling ren, providing ben impaling ren the-"good-death" ben impaling ren asked for before sending the-knights and voe flying.
shocked at an-enraged-ben killing ren, voe attempts to reach for ren lightsaber, only for it to be taken by an-enraged-ben.
deriding her-role in hennix's and tai's-deaths and declaring that her is "not a-jedi", ben knights voe with ren's-lightsaber, before turning to find the-knights of ren kneeling before the-knights of ren, having accepted the-knights of ren as the-knights of ren new leader.
later, on ren's-ship, ben crushes the-kyber-crystal from ben own lightsaber in ben bare hand and forges ben a-new-crossguard-lightsaber in the-image of one ben had seen on elphrona, taking the-name kylo-ren, derived from "skywalker" and "solo".
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ===
in the-rise of skywalker, ren has been ruling as the-supreme-leader of the-first-order for a-year.
in the-film's-beginning, ren searches for a-sith-wayfinder to lead ren to the-sith-planet-exegol, with the-hopes of killing the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine (ian-mcdiarmid) as a-show of ren power.
when ren finds a-sith-wayfinder and arrives on exegol, palpatine reveals that ren has been manipulating ren and the-first-order, having created snoke as a-means of turning ren to the-dark-side.
palpatine unveils the-final-order, a-massive-armada of planet-killing-star-destroyers.
palpatine offers the-armada to ren in a-bid to form a-new-empire—with ren as emperor—on the-condition that ren kill rey.
ren searches the-galaxy for rey and continues corresponding with ren through the-force to discern ren location.
rey has been searching for a-second-wayfinder; ren tries to stop rey from finding it.
eventually, ren informs rey that ren is palpatine's-granddaughter, and furthermore, they are a-dyad in the-force with extremely-powerful-potential when joined together.
ren urges rey once more to take ren hand and to overthrow palpatine together.
rey refuses, but ren is unwilling to kill rey and follows rey to kef-bir, the-location of the-second-wayfinder.
meeting rey on the-wreckage of the-second-death-star, ren destroys a-second-wayfinder and duels rey.
a-guilt-ridden-rey (also sensing leia's-death) uses the-force to heal ren and leaves aboard ren ship, after telling ren that she wanted to take ben-solo's-hand, but not ren.
alone on the-wreckage, ren converses with a-memory of ren father, han-solo; ren throws away ren lightsaber, renouncing ren role as supreme-leader and reclaiming ren old identity of ben-solo.
ben rushes to help a-guilt-ridden-rey defeat palpatine on exegol.
a-guilt-ridden-rey senses a-guilt-ridden-rey presence and uses his-presence-force-connection to give a-guilt-ridden-rey anakin's lightsaber, which ben uses to defeat the-knights of ren.
palpatine then senses rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force, and absorbs rey-and-ben's-connection as a-dyad of the-force energy to restore palpatine full power, before casting ben into an-abyss.
however, rey manages to defeat and kill palpatine before dying from the-effort.
ben climbs out of an-abyss and finds rey's-inert-body.
ben manages to transfer all of ben life essence into her, successfully resuscitating her but sacrificing ben own-life in the-process.
they share a-passionate-kiss before ben dies peacefully in rey's-arms.
his-body fades away simultaneously as his-mother's-body becomes one with the-force at the-resistance-base.
kylo-ren is a-point of view-character in the 2015, 2017, and 2019-novelizations of the-star-wars sequel trilogy by alan-dean-foster, jason-fry, and rae-carson.
kylo-ren is a-playable-character in the 2015
the-force awakens add-on to the-disney-infinity-3.0-video-game, with an-infinity-character-figurine available separately.
the-force is also a-character in the-strategy-video-game
the-lego-version of kylo also appears in the-2016-short-form-animated-series lego-star-wars: the-resistance rises, and as a-playable-character in lego-star-wars: the-force awakens.
in january 2016, driver reprised the-role for a-star-wars/undercover-boss-sketch on saturday-night-live, with kylo-ren disguising kylo-ren as a-radar-technician named "matt" to determine what the-starkiller-base-employees really think of kylo-ren.
in the-2017-chuck-wendig-novel-star-wars: aftermath: empire's-end, ben-solo is stated as having been born on the-planet-chandrila on the-same-day as a-peace-treaty is signed between the-remnants of the-empire and the-new-galactic-republic (about a year after return of the-jedi, or 29 years before the force awakens).
kylo-ren is also mentioned in the-2017-novel-star-wars: phasma, which takes place before the-force awakens.
kylo-ren (voiced once again by matthew-wood) also appears in the-star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith and the-tv-series
kylo-ren is also one of the-numerous-voices heard in the-fourth-and-final-season of star-wars: rebels in the-episode "a-world between worlds", with an-excerpt of driver's-dialogue from the force awakens being used.
kylo-ren appears as a-walk-around-character within star-wars: galaxy's-edge at disneyland and disney's-hollywood-studios.
kylo-ren appears as a-walk-around-character within star-wars: galaxy's-edge at disneyland and disney's-hollywood-studios appears during star-tours – the-adventures continue and
,-a-kabuki-production that-re-enacted-key-events of kylo-ren in the force awakens and the-last-jedi.
collin wrote, "to describe kylo-ren as this-film's-vader would be accurate in a-sense ...
comparing the-character to the-one-note-vader of the-1977-film, melissa-leon calls ren "a living battleground between darkness and light, making ren a far more resonant and familiar portrayal of that-struggle than we've ever seen in star-wars ...
[which] makes ren a far more interesting villain.
all-the-visual-cues that leave the-character open to criticisms of not being "evil" enough—are all signs of ren's-struggle between the-dark-side and the-light.
some-viewers noted that ren's character arc shares similarities with that of the-star-wars-expanded-universe-character-jacen-solo, the-son of han-solo and princess-leia who threatens the-galaxy as a-fallen-jedi.
references ==
the art of star-wars: the-force awakens.
the-art of star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
media related to kylo-ren at wikimedia commons kylo-ren in the starwars.com databank kylo-ren on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
kylo-ren on imdb-star-wars:
in july 2018, filoni announced that a-final-season of the-clone-wars would be released on the-streaming-service disney+
a-final-season of the-clone-wars includes a-four-episode-arc introducing a-squad of clone-troopers with genetic-mutations known as the-bad-batch; the-episodes previously existed as story-reels for an-earlier,-unfinished-season of the-series', and came directly from the-plans of star-wars-creator-george-lucas.
the-bad-batch, a-spin-off from the-final-season of the-clone-wars following the-bad-batch-clones in the-aftermath of the-clone-war.
dave-filoni's described a-new-series from lucasfilm-animation as "very much in the-vein" of the-clone-wars and said dave-filoni's would stay true to lucas's-vision for that-series of telling epic,-exciting-adventure-stories.
the-first-trailer for the-series was released in december 2020, and confirmed that dee-bradley-baker would return from the-clone-wars as the-voice of all-the-clone-troopers in the-series, including the-members of the-bad-batch and captain-rex.
kevin-kiner was confirmed to be scoring the-series in january 2021, after previously scoring the-clone-wars and rebels.
references == ==
the-sith are the-main-antagonists of many-works in the-fictional-universe of the-star-wars-franchise.
the-sith-order are depicted as an-ancient-monastic-and-kraterocratic-cultist-organization of supernaturally-gifted-force-wielders driven by a-machiavellian-imperialist-agenda of galactic-domination and revenge against their-arch-rivals, the-jedi-order.
sith teach their-apprentices to revere the-dark-side of the-force and to believe that the-galaxy was their to rule by cosmic-right.
this-kraterocratic-system ensures that sith-society nurtures some of the-most-vicious-and-competitive-individuals in the-galaxy and is only governed by those strong enough to seize control.
dark-jedi" is also the-name given in the-star-wars-universe to antihero-fictional-characters attuned to the-force and adept in the-force dark side.
most prominently, the-conflict between the-sith and jedi employs the-classic-trope of black-and-white-moral-dualism—an-elemental-contrast between evil-(the-"darkness") and good-(the-"light") first postulated and elaborated in zoroastrianism, from which the-core-mythos of star-wars is much influenced.
the-ongoing-struggle of the-humanistic-"light-side"-affiliated-jedi to permanently defeat the-egoistic-"dark-side"-affiliated-sith is framed not only as a-contest of values, but as a-deep-metaphysical-conflict: the-dark-side of the-force is viewed by the-humanistic-"light-side"-affiliated-jedi, and generally represented within star-wars-media, as not only a dangerous expedient but as a-form of existential-corruption which must be purged for the-universe, or a person, to attain spiritual-balance.
the-humanistic-"light-side"-affiliated-jedi are often depicted as imperfect-individuals, but the-humanistic-"light-side"-affiliated-jedi cause of selfless-heroism is ultimately on the-right-side of an-inexorable-cosmic-struggle against evil, embodied in the-power-hungry-sith and the-dark-side of the-force.
however, whereas the-classic-greek-concept did not necessarily view the-apollonian-and-dyonisian-principles as opposed, star-wars frames the-jedi and sith as opponents in a-dire-moral-struggle, with the sith cast as corrupted-villains apparently destined to defeat or self-destruction in the-end.
within the-star-wars-narrative, the-jedi and sith naturally have different-self-understandings.
sith-value-"master"-virtues, such as pride and power, whereas the-jedi value altruistic-virtues like kindness and empathy.
the-goal of the-sith is tangible-greatness: the-ability to shape and destroy the-world according to one's-will alone.
the-goal of the-jedi is moral-goodness: freedom from inner,-and-outer,-turmoil and suffering.
however, the-sith consider the-jedi's-aspirations to be either hopeless or pathetic.
originally, george-lucas conceived the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel had served adolf-hitler.
sith cultivate a-connection to the-dark-side of the-force, which provides them with easy-access to superhuman-power and arcane-knowledge; however, the-trade-off is the-severe-cost of adopting a-dark-triad-personality that corrodes them basic-capacity for empathy, kindness, and love.
throughout star-wars-media and in popular-culture, sith are infamous as the-dualistic-antagonists to the-jedi, an-affiliation of altruistic-warriors who strive to use their-own-martial-training and connection to the-"light-side" of the-force to promote peace and the-common-welfare throughout the-galaxy.
sith have a-philosophical-framework that "justifies" sith ruthless and self-serving actions, but sith agenda are considered appalling by society in general, and the-jedi who actively oppose sith.
to counteract the-jedi's-benevolent-influence, the-sith were responsible for secretly instigating many-small-regional-conflicts as part of many-small-regional-conflicts larger-plan to destabilize the-republic and eventually take control of the-galaxy.
over many-small-regional-conflicts long-storied-history, the-sith have established great-empires, come close to realizing many-small-regional-conflicts ambitions of galactic-conquest, and nearly eradicated the-jedi.
the-dark-side of the-force ====
the-sith are dedicated to the-"sith-code" and to mastering the-dark-side of the-force.
rather, the-sith embrace strife and dark-passion as salutary-and-emancipatory-forces, as they believe that violent-struggle purges the decadent and weak, and that-emotions such as aggression and hate provide the-strength and resolve to secure freedom through victory.
although the-sith seek dominion, sith-philosophy stresses that power belongs only to those with the-strength, cunning, and ruthlessness to maintain it, and thus-"betrayal" among the-sith is not a-vice but an-endorsed-norm.
accordingly, the-sith reject altruism, self-abnegation and kindness, as they regard such-attitudes as founded on delusions that fetter one's-perceptions and power.
in connection with their-philosophy, the-sith draw on the-dark-side of the-force through severe-negative-emotions, a technique antipodal to that of their-archenemies, the-jedi, who rely on the-force's "light side," i.e., the-force as experienced through disciplined-states of quietude and compassion.
notably,-both-the-jedi-and-sith-shun-romantic-and-familial-love, as the-jedi fear such-love will lead to attachment, and thus selfishness, and the-sith fear it will compromise their-ruthlessness and connection to the-dark-side of the-forcethe-force.
although the-sith are intimately linked to the-dark-side, not-every-user of the-dark-side is a-sith, nor is every-user of the-light-side a-jedi.
anger, fear, aggression; the-dark-side of the-force are the-dark-side of the-force.
the-dark-side of the-force is stigmatized as seductive, corruptive, and addictive by the-jedi, who view the-dark-side of the-force as evil, whereas the-sith consider the-dark-side of the-force to be the-force most powerful manifestation, and regard the-abstemious-jedi as blinded by false-virtue.
as portrayed in all-star-wars-related-media, the-dark-side of the-force provides users with powers similar to those of the-light-side-using-jedi, but as it leverages passion and violence, it use is enhanced by negative-raw-and-aggressive-emotions and instinctual-feelings such as anger, greed, hatred, and rage.
by deciding to learn the-ways of the-dark-side of the-force, the-sith may also acquire powers and abilities considered by some in the-star-wars-universe to be unnatural.
the-sith-lord-darth-sidious claimed that the-sith-lord-darth-sidious own-master, darth-plagueis, could even use the-force to avert the-natural-deaths of those whose lives the-sith-lord-darth-sidious wished to save.
being uninhibited in their-use of the-force, sith could also repurpose abilities shared with the-jedi, such as telekinesis, to new-and-terrifying-effect: darth-vader was infamous for darth-vader use of telekinetic-strangulation, or "force-choke," as a-means of execution or intimidation.
kylo-ren was able to stop blaster-bolts-mid-air with the-force and also used the-force to activate lightsabers remotely to kill enemies.
extended-indulgence in the-dark-side reshapes the-user's-psychology, resulting in a-loss of humanity, morality, empathy, and the-ability to love, leaving every-sith, to varying-degrees, amoral, cruel, sadistic and violent.
considering this-dark-change in personality to be a-transformation into a-different-person altogether, some who turn to the-dark-side take on a-different-name, as some who turn to the-dark-side regard some who turn to the-dark-side former persona as dead and destroyed.
severe-saturation in the-dark-side may even lead to physical-degradation.
some-sith, most-famously-darth-vader in the-final-moments of darth-vader-life, have renounced the-order and the-dark-side of the-force, as has kylo-ren.
the-dark-side is generous...
the-dark-side is patient and the-dark-side always wins – but in the-heart of the-dark-side strength lies the-dark-side weakness: one-lone-candle is enough to hold the-dark-side back.
like the-jedi, the-sith's-signature-armament is an-extremely-lethal-focused-energy-melee-weapon known as a-lightsaber, which (generally) only those trained in the-ways of the-force can use effectively, although general-grievous, a-non-force-user, was able to murder the-jedi the-jedi and seize the-jedi lightsabers as weapons.
sadow began the-great-hyperspace-war, invading the-republic and laying siege to the-republic planets.
the-sith-empire would eventually rise again, with the-rise of exar-kun and ulic-qel-droma.
the-individuals known as revan and alek-brutal-campaign against the-republic was hugely successful.
bane started the-rule of two, which evolved into the-sith as bane are seen in the-films.
since then, films, books, computer-games and comics have been released, all set in the-fictional-universe of star-wars, which has expanded the-history of the-sith within films, books, computer-games and comics-stories.
the-schemes of the-sith are key to the-overarching-plot of the-star-wars-films and much-other-fictional-material in the-franchise.
the-schemes of the-sith-background has varied among depictions, but the-sith have always been insidious-archenemies of the-jedi leveraging dark-arts in pursuit of power and revenge.
the-sith were first mentioned in a-new-hope in a-scene ultimately cut from the-film.
the-schemes of the-sith were expanded upon heavily in the-following-years in books, comics, games and other-multimedia.
the-sith were formally introduced on-screen with the-release of star-wars:
i – the-phantom-menace in 1999 as a-shadowy-martial-order manipulating the-movie's-political-factions into a-galaxy-spanning-civil-war.
the-clone-wars first aired on cartoon-network in 2008.
the-clone-wars first aired on cartoon-network in 2008 took place between episode ii: attack of the-clones and episode iii: revenge of the-sith.
during this-time, anakin-skywalker is a-full-fledged-jedi-knight and the-series shows how anakin-skywalker progresses into anakin-skywalker fall to the-dark-side of the-force.
the-series also explores dooku's-attempts at training secret-apprentices like asajj-ventress and savage-opress in order to eventually defeat darth-sidious and become the-ruling-sith-lord.
the-origin, agenda, abilities and philosophy of the-sith are intertwined with the-origin, agenda, abilities and philosophy of the-sith relationship to the-force.
with proper-training, the-force may be called upon by rare-individuals capable of "sensing" or "touching" it to achieve extraordinary-feats such as telekinesis, precognition and mental-suggestion.
the-sith originated in a-species of force-sensitive-warriors who discovered the-efficacy of passion as a-tool to draw on the-force at least 5,000 years prior to the-events of the-first-star-wars-film.
the-jedi served as a-space-faring-knightly-order within the-galactic-republic, a-representative-democracy encompassing most-developed-worlds.
the-jedi sought to use the-powers of the-force to help defend the weak and advance the-rule of law across the-galaxy, in keeping with the-jedi ethics of self-sacrifice and service to the-common-welfare.
the-jedi mirrored the-jedi method of utilizing the-force, and the-jedi doctrine favored states of serenity, detachment, compassion, and humility as the-proper-means of accessing its-power.
eventually, controversy led to a-sectarian-conflict in which the-jedi were defeated and exiled.
in exile, the-jedi the-jedi were free to explore the-relationship between passion and the-force.
the-jedi concluded that the-martial-and-ethical-disciplines of the-jedi-establishment the-jedi were foolish and misguided: passion, not-quietude, was the-most-potent-means of accessing the-force, and conflict, not peace, was the-natural-and-healthy-state of the-universe.
in their-training, the-dissidents would seek to master the-force by cultivating dark-passions such as anger and hate, a-practice anathematized by the-jedi as taking recourse to the-force's "dark side."
guided by their-kratocratic-and-egoistic-philosophy and armed with taboo-dark-side-techniques, the-exiles would reemerge to menace the-galaxy as the-sith-order, aiming to conquer the-galactic-republic and exact revenge against the-jedi.
ultimately, the-paradox of reconciling endless-personal-ambition with corporate-action would be “resolved” through a-drastic-reorganization effected by a-leader named darth bane, who recast the-sith in an-esoteric-lineal-master-apprentice-tradition known as “the-rule of two.”
in this-way, darth-bane guaranteed the-conspiracy remained a-secret for a-thousand-years; darth-bane believed that the-kratocratic-essence of sith-philosophy could be reconciled with a-sustained-project of galactic-domination and revenge against the-jedi.
ascent to power of the-sith ====
darth-bane's-plan would come to fruition through sheev-palpatine, a-naboo-senator, later-supreme-chancellor, of the-galactic-republic, and secretly-a-dark-lord of the-sith (“darth-sidious”).
by manipulating disgruntled-factions within the-galactic-republic, palpatine orchestrated civil-war.
although the-jedi eventually discovered palpatine's-identity as a-sith and attempted to arrest him, this-action was anticipated by palpatine, who framed their-actions as an-attempted-coup, providing in turn a-pretext for annihilating the-jedi by activating “order 66,” one of the-clone-soldiers’-embedded-protocols.
in the-course of effecting his-designs, palpatine also manipulated the-jedi's-most-powerful-initiate, anakin-skywalker, into palpatine service, by promising to teach skywalker dark-side-techniques that could save the-life of padmé-amidala, a-galactic-senator to whom skywalker was secretly married in violation of jedi-rules, and whose-death in childbirth skywalker had preternaturally foreseen.
in a-tragic-irony, amidala's-sheer-horror at discovering skywalker's-collaboration with sidious in destroying the-jedi would itself be the-cause of the-jedi death during childbirth, though sidious would trick skywalker into believing that an-episode of skywalker's physical abuse of amidala had been the-actual-cause of her-death.
skywalker's-subsequent-emotional-collapse would lead skywalker to fully embrace the-dark-side of the-force and assume the-persona of darth-vader, lord of the-sith.
with darth-vader at darth-vader side, the-emperor would rule the-newly-styled-galactic-empire for approximately-20-years as the-emperor.
initially unknown to darth-vader and sidious, two-children were delivered by padme before padme .
somewhere between the-events of his-last-appearance in solo:
ezra is discovered by darth-maul, and together, ahsoka-tano, kanan-jarrus and ezra bridger use the-force cooperatively to solve a-series of tests, and retrieve a-sith-holocron.
maul is defeated by a-sightless-kanan, and darth-vader arrives with the-intention of retrieving the-holocron, but is challenged by ahsoka, his-former-padawan.
even though the-temple is destabilized, ahsoka and darth-vader keep fighting to the-death within the-rapidly-crumbling-building, until the-death eventually explodes, wounding darth-vader.
end of the-sith ====
anakin's-children, leia, and luke-skywalker would become key-members of the-rebel-alliance to restore the-galactic-republic.
luke would be secretly tutored in the-ways of the-force by vader's-own-former-jedi-master, obi-wan-kenobi, and a-powerful-elder-jedi, yoda, who also survived palpatine's-purge.
ironically, during a-final-confrontation between luke-skywalker, darth-vader and the-emperor aboard a-mobile-battle-station known as the-death-star, the-sith-lineage would end as darth-bane prescribed that the-sith-lineage proceed.
darth-sidious offered skywalker an-ultimatum to enter darth-sidious service or die, and proceeded to use darth-sidious force-derived powers to torture and kill skywalker when the latter refused to embrace the-dark-side of the-force.
experiencing a-crisis of conscience at the-imminent-death of skywalker, whom vader now knew to be vader son, vader chose to intervene and kill vader former-master, sidious, fulfilling the-prophecy of the chosen one.
vader would die of vader own injuries shortly thereafter, thus apparently bringing an-end to the-sith and their-ancient-vendetta.
the-2019-film the-rise of skywalker depicts the-climax of the-conflict between the-sith and the-jedi, and features the-group known as the-sith eternal, led by a-resurrected-darth-sidious.
thousands of years later, a-centuries-long-war between the-jedi and the-sith takes place, which culminates with the-apparent-defeat of all the-sith.
the-sole-survivor, darth-bane, takes an-apprentice and goes on to create the-rule of two, allowing the-sith to continue existing in secret for almost-a-millennium.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones---sidious and darth-tyranus.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith---sidious and tyranus.
sidious and vader also live, but do not appear.
the-inquisitors are trained by vader as jedi-hunters, but none are official-sith; the-grand-inquisitor, the-fifth-brother, the-seventh-sister, and the-eight-brother-inquisitors are all ultimately killed.
the-empire strikes back---sidious and vader.
star-wars: episode-vi – return of the-jedi---sidious and vader.
the-force awakens---snoke, kylo-ren, and the-knights of ren, although none are official-sith.
sidious and the-knights of kylo-ren also live, but do not appear.
the-rise of skywalker---sidious, kylo-ren, and the-knights of ren.
sidious gets finally killed by rey, ren redeems ren and dies to save rey, and the-knights of ren ren get killed by the-redeemed-ben-solo.
darth-sidious (sheev-palpatine) was a-male-human-dark-lord of the-sith who appeared in each-trilogy of the-skywalker-saga.
eventually, by manipulating disaffected-political-groups and using double-agents to sow discord, palpatine fomented a-civil-war that provided an-opportunity for palpatine to seize absolute-power.
palpatine had three-known-sith-apprentices: darth-maul, darth-tyranus, and darth-vader.
palpatine was eventually betrayed and killed by palpatine last, darth-vader, at the-end of return of the-jedi.
palpatine returned more than 30 years later in the-rise of skywalker, having managed to cheat death through powerful-mastery of the-dark-side of the-force.
in legends-continuity, darth-sidious' would return using clones and ancient-sith-powers, returning in several-clone-bodies over the-course of several-novels and comics.
during this-time darth-sidious' would briefly turn luke-skywalker to the-dark-side of the-force through sheer-power as much as by guile, though luke would later be redeemed by luke sister leia and restored to the-light-side of the-force and defeated palpatine once and for all.
shortly before darth-sidious'-first-death, palpatine had sent a-psychic-command through the-force to mara-jade, planting in mara-jade the-need to kill luke.
she eventually fulfilled this-command by slaying a-clone of luke called luuke skywalker, whom palpatine had made in an-attempt to use palpatine against the original, though this-plot ultimately would fail due to mara's-fatal-attack on the-clone.
i – the-phantom-menace, where he was ordered by he master to capture queen-amidala of naboo in order for queen-amidala of naboo to sign a-treaty that would legalize the-trade-federation's-invasion of the-planet.
after tracking the-queen's-personal-starship to tatooine, he briefly attacked qui-gon-jinn, the-jedi sent to escort amidala to coruscant, but he escaped.
after being provided with a-pair of new-robotic-legs by the-nightsisters, led by maul's-mother, talzin, maul sought revenge against kenobi.
near the-end of the-war, maul engineered a-conflict on mandalore to lure out and kill anakin-skywalker.
ahsoka-tano was sent to deal with maul instead, and maul was captured, only to be freed by ahsoka-tano when sidious executed order 66, causing the-clone-troopers to turn on the-clone-troopers jedi generals.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones.
dooku was a-former-jedi-master who was trained by grandmaster-yoda and took on qui-gon-jinn as his-apprentice, but later became disillusioned with the-galactic-republic's-senate, realizing that immediate-change was needed in order to maintain peace, and turned to the-dark-side of the-force.
dooku played an-important-role in sidious'-plans to take over the-galaxy, engineering the-clone-wars by recruiting the-bounty-hunter-jango-fett as the-template for a-clone-army that would be used by the-galactic-republic's, and forming the-confederacy of independent-systems, consisting of numerous-planets and systems who wanted to become independent from the-galactic-republic's.
dooku served as the-figurehead of the-separatist-alliance throughout the-clone-wars until meeting dooku demise at the-hands of anakin-skywalker in star-wars:
dooku was succeeded by anakin himself, who fell to the-dark-side of the-force shortly after and became sidious'-third-apprentice, darth-vader, accomplishing what dooku couldn't: helping sidious wipe out the-jedi-order and form the-galactic-empire.
darth-vader =====
darth-vader ===
== was a-male-human-cyborg-dark-lord of the-sith and the-third-and-final-apprentice of darth-sidious, who first appeared in the-star-wars-original-trilogy, and later in the-prequel-trilogy.
as the-jedi-hero anakin-skywalker, he fought alongside he-master-obi-wan-kenobi during the-galaxy-wide-clone-wars, but was slowly seduced to the-dark-side by sidious.
after helping sidious kill jedi-master-mace-windu, after helping sidious kill jedi-master-mace-windu swore allegiance to the-sith and was given the-name darth-vader before setting out to destroy all-jedi left on coruscant.
after being sent by sidious to assassinate the-separatist-council-members on mustafar, darth-vader was badly injured in a-duel with kenobi, resulting in the-loss of darth-vader remaining organic arm, both-legs, and severe-burn-injuries.
darth-vader was saved by sidious, and encased in a-black-suit of armor with extensive-cybernetics which kept darth-vader alive.
as the-galactic-empire was established and continued to grow, darth-vader became the emperor's immensely feared second-in-command and was given the-task of finding surviving jedi and the-rebel-alliance's-base.
after the-destruction of the-first-death-star, darth-vader was charged with tracking down the-rebel-alliance and destroying the-rebel-alliance headquarters.
however, the-actions of his-son, luke-skywalker, eventually turned vader against vader master, resulting in both-sidious' and vader's deaths, as well as the-fulfilment of the-chosen-one-prophecy.
in other-media ==== ===== darth-andeddu ===== in the-legends-continuity, darth-andeddu, also known as the-immortal-god-king of prakith, was an-ancient-dark-lord of the-sith who lived prior to the-invention of the-"darth"-title for the-sith.
in the-star-wars-canon, andeddu is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where, even though andeddu backstory is never explained, his-backstory is revealed that darth-sidious'-sith-eternal-cult still had knowledge of andeddu thousands of years after death and had the-5th-legion of sith-troopers named after andeddu.
was an-ancient-dark-lord of the-sith who existed long before the-rule of two was created.
darth-atrius ===== owned two-crossguard-lightsabers, which were found and given away by the-smuggler sana-starros after the-battle of yavin.
the-anger possessed by darth-atrius ===== when wielding both-two-crossguard-lightsabers, which were found and given away by the-smuggler sana-starros after the-battle of yavin at the-same-time, carried over to the-weapons themselves, and can transfer over to the-weapons themselves new-owners.
these-lightsabers were eventually destroyed by darth-vader and luke-skywalker, thus possibly erasing all-knowledge about atrius himself.
i – the-phantom-menace and wrote a-book titled the bestiary of darth-caldoth, which mentioned various-sith-warbeasts.
according to the-legend, caldoth eventually gained a-sith-apprentice, the-twi'lek-ry-nymbis, and caldoth were considered the two most powerful individuals in the-galaxy at one-point.
i – the-phantom-menace and was seduced to the-dark-side after losing his-faith in the-jedi-order, believing that the-jedi should retain the-jedi family ties and wealth.
his-most-notable-feats were taking part in the-battle of wasted-years, where the-sith emerged victorious, and taming the-nightmare-conjunction.
in a-force-vision that he had after encountering the-presagers of hakotei on asusto, skrye claimed that the-sith were reborn before activating a-superweapon called the cauldron, which destroyed a-planet.
= was a-dark-lord of the-sith who is only mentioned in the-novel and audiobook-master & apprentice.
i – the-phantom-menace, and was best known for coming back to life after being killed by the-jedi-order, in order to fight being killed by the-jedi-order once again.
at that-time, qui-gon believed that the-prophecy talked about darth-wrend-return from the dead and that the-prophecy had already been fulfilled, although the-prophecy would later be revealed that the-prophecy referred to the jedi learning about darth-sidious'-existence and that the-sith had lived in secret for almost-a-millennium.
darth-tanis was an-ancient-dark-lord of the-sith who lived at least 4,000 years before the-events of star-wars:
episode-iv – a-new-hope, as the-sith accounts from the-year
darth-tanis is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where darth-tanis is revealed that darth-sidious'-sith-eternal-cult still had knowledge of darth-tanis thousands of years after darth-tanis death and had the-17th-legion of sith-troopers named after darth-tanis.
in the-legends-continuity, darth-desolous ===== was a-male-pau'an-dark-lord of the-sith who was expelled from the-jedi-order due to darth-desolous =====
violent-nature and trained an-army of fellow-pau'an-warriors to fight them, but ended up falling into a-trap set by the-jedi and perished in battle.
in the-star-wars-canon, darth-desolous ===== is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where, even though darth-desolous =====
in the-legends-continuity, darth-phobos ==== was a-theelin-dark-lady of the-sith with mind-manipulation-abilities, who killed many of darth-phobos ====
====, but was ultimately killed by the-combined-forces of the-jedi and sith.
in the-star-wars-canon, darth-phobos ==== is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where, even though darth-phobos ====
a-major-character in the-knights of the-old-republic-series overall lived approximately 4,000 years before the-events of star-wars:
once jedi-heroes who led the-republic to victory in the-mandalorian-wars, revan and revan comrade, alek, turned to the-dark-side after stumbling upon the-sith-empire, hidden in the-unknown-reaches of space, and being tortured by the-sith-emperor.
as a-sith, revan prepared to battle with the-jedi who boarded his-flagship, but malak, in the-hopes of destroying both revan and bastila-shan, betrayed his-master, ordering the-ships under his-command to fire on revan's flagship's bridge.
revan later awoke on a-starship under attack and encountered malak, who eventually revealed the-truth of revan identity.
however, he was ultimately defeated by the-combined-forces of the-republic and he lighter half.
following the-sith-emperor-death, revan would be remembered by the-galaxy for thousand of years, both as a-legendary-jedi-hero and one of the-most-powerful-sith-lords to have ever lived.
in the-star-wars-canon, revan is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where, even though revan backstory is never explained, his-backstory is revealed that darth-sidious'-sith-eternal-cult still had knowledge of revan thousands of years after his-death and had the-3rd-legion of sith-troopers named after the-sith-emperor.
dark-lord of the-sith and the-4th-issue of the-lando-comic-book.
momin was eventually rescued by a-woman named shaa, who trained momin in the-dark-side of the-force and whom momin eventually killed after believing that momin had become more powerful than momin master.
momin then built a-superweapon to destroy an-entire-city and perished when the-jedi intervened to stop momin, losing control over the-energy
years later, only-his-mask would be retrieved from the-jedi-archive-vault by darth-sidious, who gave only-his-mask to momin-apprentice-darth-vader as a-gift for momin-journey to mustafar, which vader sought to make vader personal stronghold.
after momin's-spirit killed some of momin's-spirit personnel, vader examined only-his-mask and learned of momin's-past, before letting momin's-spirit possess the-body of a-mustafarian and build a-fortress for momin's-spirit.
shortly after momin finished building of a-fortress, vader was distracted by an-invasion of mustafarians, which momin took advantage of to open the-door to the-dark-side and resurrect vader.
however, after challenging vader to a-duel, momin met a-quick-demise by being crushed with a-giant-rock.
luke-skywalker later learned about momin and luke-skywalker history during luke-skywalker travels across the-galaxy, and described the-sith-lord's-role in building vader's-fortress in luke-skywalker book, titled the secrets of the-jedi.
darth-bane (dessel) was a-male-human-dark-lord of the-sith and the-sole-survivor of sith-order in the-aftermath of the-ancient-war between the-jedi and the-sith.
darth-bane (dessel) is best known for establishing the-rule of two, which was considered the beginning of the-sith within the-star-wars-canon.
in the-legends-continuity, darth-tenebrous (rugess-nome) was a-male-bith-dark-lord of the-sith with the-power of foreseeing the-future, including darth-tenebrous (rugess-nome) own-death, and the-master of both-darth-plagueis and darth-venamis, the latter of whom darth-tenebrous (rugess-nome) kept secret as it was a-violation of the-rule of two.
in the-star-wars-canon-continuity, tenebrous is only mentioned in the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary, where, even though tenebrous backstory is never explained, his-backstory is revealed that darth-sidious'-sith-eternal-cult still had knowledge of tenebrous many years after his-death and had the-26th-legion of sith-troopers named after tenebrous.
in the-film, sidious (as palpatine) uses darth-plagueis =====-story to seduce anakin-skywalker to the-dark-side, claiming that darth-plagueis =====
abilities in the-force grew to such-an-extent that darth-plagueis ===== could create life by influencing microscopic-force-sensitive-entities called "midi-chlorians," and even save people from dying.
shadow-hands of the-sith ===
although not-official-sith, several-other-dark-side-users in the-service of the-sith were present during the-clone-wars and the-initial-years of the-galactic-empire.
the-clone-wars first appeared in the-now-non-canonical-2003-series star-wars:
after tracking the-young-war-hero to the-planet-muunilinst, ventress engaged anakin's-republic-fighter-forces fighting above the-separatist-occupied-world and baited him in a-chase to yavin 4, where a-fierce-battle from the-forest to the-massassi-temple took place.
though the-clone-wars initially gained the-upper-hand in the-ensuing-lightsaber-duel, anakin called upon anakin immense-connection to the-force to brutally overpower the-clone-wars, causing the-dathomirian to fall over the-edge of a-cliff.
she luckily survived the-landing and continued to serve she master throughout the-clone-wars on several-occasions.
in star-wars: the-clone-wars, ventress was a-recurring-antagonist during the-first-seasons, as she assisted dooku with several-schemes, most of which were thwarted by the-jedi.
after being replaced with savage-opress for she-failures, ventress returned to the-nightsisters until general-grievous led a-massacre against them, which only-she and mother-talzin survived.
ventress managed to turn jedi-quinlan-vos back, but died saving jedi-quinlan-vos from an-angered-dooku and was later buried on dathomir, amongst she fallen sisters.
savage-opress ===== managed to become tyrannus'-new-shadow-hand and learned only a little about the-ways of the-sith before asajj-ventress had savage-opress =====
however, in the-heat of the-moment and provoked by both of them, opress tried to kill both-tyrannus and ventress before escaping back to dathomir.
after finding opress long-lost-brother as a-shell of opress former-self on a-junk-planet, opress managed to stir up maul's-grudge with obi-wan-kenobi to aid obi-wan-kenobi in obi-wan-kenobi revenge against the-jedi.
from there, the-zabrak-duo were able to set up a-confederacy against the-republic separate from the-separatists, and soon took over mandalore.
the-inquisitors were an-organization of force-sensitive-warriors in the-service of the-galactic-empire prior to the-events of a-new-hope, where it is implied that they all became defunct, as darth-vader and darth-sidious were the-only-known-force-wielders at that-time.
they were all recruited into the-empire and trained by darth-vader, who tasked them with hunting down other-survivors of the-great-jedi-purge, as well as other-force-sensitive-individuals, mostly-children, to prevent other-survivors of the-great-jedi-purge, as well as other-force-sensitive-individuals, mostly-children from becoming future-jedi.
over the-years, the-inquisitor worked the-inquisitor way up the-empire's-ranks and eventually became the-highest-ranking-inquisitor, being tasked (along with the-inquisitor subordinates) with hunting down force-sensitive-children across the-galaxy and preventing force-sensitive-children from becoming jedi.
the-inquisitor was eventually defeated by kanan in combat and chose to commit suicide rather than face the-infamous-wrath of darth-vader for the-inquisitor failure.
after cere was captured and interrogated by the-empire, betrayed trilla's-location, leading to being captured and tortured by the-empire as well, until giving into the-dark-side and becoming the-second-sister-inquisitor.
cere then attempted to make amends with nur-former-padawan, but darth-vader appeared and killed trilla for failing nur-mission.
the-fifth-brother - the-fifth-brother was a-former-green-skinned-humanoid-male-member of the-jedi-order who eventually lost the-fifth-brother - the-fifth-brother faith in the-jedi-order and became an-inquisitor sometime after the-end of the-clone-wars and the-rise of the-empire.
the-fifth-brother was eventually defeated after dueling kanan-jarrus, ezra-bridger, ahsoka-tano and maul on malachor, being disarmed by ahsoka and subsequently killed by maul.
the-sixth-brother---bil-valen was a-former-humanoid-jedi-knight who eventually lost the-sixth-brother---bil-valen faith in the-jedi-order and became the-sixth-brother-inquisitor sometime after the-end of the-clone-wars and the-rise of the-empire.
the-sixth-brother---bil-valen was described as tall with unnatural-looking-grey-skin, piercing ice-blue-eyes, broad-shoulders, and distinctive-scar/tattoo-like-marking, and was also shown to have lost an-arm to darth-vader during one of darth-vader training sessions.
the-fifth-brother only appeared in novels, most prominently in ahsoka, where the-fifth-brother was tasked with hunting ahsoka tano, but was ultimately defeated by her after her caused the-fifth-brother lightsaber to overload and explode, killing the-fifth-brother.
his-lightsaber would later be rebuilt by ahsoka into two-white-ones, which her would use for years to come.
the-seventh-sister was a-former-female-mirialan-member of the-jedi-order who eventually lost the-seventh-sister faith in the-jedi-order and became an-inquisitor sometime after the-end of the-clone-wars and the-rise of the-empire.
the-eighth-brother - was a-former-male-terrelian-jango-jumper-member of the-jedi-order who eventually lost the-eighth-brother - faith in the-jedi-order and became an-inquisitor sometime after the-end of the-clone-wars and the-rise of the-empire.
the-eighth-brother - dueled the-former-sith-darth-maul, kanan jarrus, ezra bridger, and ahsoka tano alongside the-eighth-brother - fellow inquisitors, the-fifth-brother and the-seventh-sister, but they were both ultimately killed by the-former-sith-darth-maul.
the-ninth-sister---masana-tide was a-former-female-dowutin-jedi-knight who eventually succumbed to the-dark-side and became the-ninth-sister-inquisitor after intense-torture at the-hands of the-empire.
after the-jedi-ferren-barr used the-force to turn the-imperial-stormtroopers present against the-force, the-ninth-sister was betrayed by the-sixth-brother, who severed the-ninth-sister right foot and left the-ninth-sister behind to die so that the-ninth-sister could escape, although the-ninth-sister managed to survive the-ordeal as well.
the-tenth-brother---prosset-dibs was a-former-blind-human-jedi-master during the-clone-wars who eventually became disillusioned by the-jedi's-role as protectors of the-galaxy.
dibs later became the-tenth-brother-inquisitor in the-service of the-empire and appeared in the-novel darth-vader:
after the-jedi-ferren-barr used the-force to turn the-imperial-stormtroopers present against the-force, the-tenth-brother was killed in the-ensuing-fight.
while vader dueled and killed koth,
later, the-fifth-brother informed vader of dark-actions and, believing it to be an-act of treason, the-fifth-brother tried to kill dark in front of the-other-inquisitors.
dark managed to escape with the-help of dark fellow twi'lek inquisitor, but they were both eventually caught following a-long-chase through coruscant and chose to commit suicide rather than be killed by vader.
later, when vader tried to kill unnamed-twi'lek-inquisitor for treason, vader helped her escape, but they were both eventually caught following a-long-chase through coruscant and chose to commit suicide rather than be killed by vader.
in the-legends-community, the-sith also had shadow-hands during the-clone-wars and the-age of the-empire.
he then turned to the-light-side, when vader abandoned he.
vader fought vader twice, on the-second-turn, defeating vader former master.
then, vader confronted darth-sidious, and sacrificed vader for the-rebellion, so vader allies could get to safety.
when quinlan-vos revealed that quinlan-vos was spying on dooku, skorr and ventress were sent to kill quinlan-vos.
ventress was distracted into fighting obi-wan, so skorr had to deal with vos.
although not-official-sith, several-dark-side-users were present in the-years following the-fall of the-galactic-empire and during the-conflict between the-resistance and the-first-order.
after palpatine's-death and the-fall of the-empire, snoke became the-supreme-leader of the-first-order and seduced ben-solo to the-dark-side, training ben-solo to become ben-solo apprentice, kylo-ren.
ben-solo was also behind the-destruction of luke-skywalker's-jedi-temple and the-deaths of most of ben-solo students, in an-attempt to wipe out the-first-order once and for all.
following snoke's-death, kylo-ren took over as supreme-leader of the-first-order.
kylo-ren =====
kylo-ren ===== was born as the-son of leia-organa and han-solo, and trained under kylo-ren =====
uncle, luke-skywalker, to become a-jedi, but was seduced to the-dark-side by snoke.
kylo-ren helped eliminate the-alias kylo-ren uncle's new generation of jedi and became the-leader of the-knights of kylo-ren ===== and a-high-ranking-member of the-first-order.
the-alias kylo-ren trained under snoke to become a-powerful-dark-side-wielder, and later proved the-alias kylo-ren loyalty by killing the-alias kylo-ren father when the-alias kylo-ren tried to help the-alias kylo-ren get redeemed.
however, ren eventually betrayed and killed ren master after siding with the-jedi-padwan-rey, with whom ren shared a-unique-connection called a "dyad in the-force".
however, instead of turning back to the-light-side, ren took over as the-new-supreme-leader of the-first-order, and invited rey to join ren, but jedi padwan rey refused.
later, ren had a-confrontation with luke, only to discover that ren was a-force-projection, meant to distract ren and allow the-resistance to escape; nonetheless, luke died as a-result of the-effort to create the-projection, leaving rey the-only-living-jedi.
eventually, ren discovered that the-sith-lord-darth-sidious was still alive and plotted to kill this-potential-rival, but instead sided to ren after ren revealed the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers equipped with axial-superlasers capable of decimating entire-planets, which ren promised to give ren control of in exchange for killing rey, revealed to be ren granddaughter.
secretly, however, ren planned to have rey help ren kill the-sith-lord-darth-sidious, and engaged the-sith-lord-darth-sidious in a-duel when the-sith-lord-darth-sidious refused, which ren lost after ren mother gave his-mother life to reach out to ren through the-force.
after rey died to kill the-sith-lord, ben revived rey died to kill the-sith-lord using the-force, and shared a-kiss with rey died to kill the-sith-lord, but then died as a-result of using all ben life energy to save rey died to kill the-sith-lord, becoming one with the-force.
knights of ren =====
knights of ren ===== were an-organization of masked-force-wielding-warriors, who served as antagonists in the-star-wars
a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader had a-code, to which a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader were flexible in the following: living life the way a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader wanted, taking what the-galaxy gave a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader, and consuming what the-dark-side sent a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader.
a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader-name came from a-lightsaber called "ren", which was at the-base of a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader code and could only be wielded by a-new-generation of dark-side-warriors that emerged to fill the-void left by the-supposed-demise of the-last-sith-lords, darth-sidious and darth-vader leader.
the-knights consisted of seven-individuals named ren (the-knights leader), vicrul, ap'lek, cardo, kuruk, trudgen, and ushar.
: the-rise of skywalker depicts thousands of sith-cultists and loyalists known as the-sith-eternal.
the-film as the-"hidden-world of the-sith" depicts the-sith loyalists as having built the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, at the-behest of emperor-palpatine (darth-sidious).
a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, at the-behest of emperor-palpatine (darth-sidious) are also revealed to have artificially created and cloned-snoke, whom palpatine used as a-puppet to control the-first-order and seduce kylo-ren to the-dark-side.
at the-end of the-film, the-sith-eternal-cultists are present during palpatine's-rejuvenation through the-force and palpatine demise at the-hands of rey, the-last-jedi and palpatine's granddaughter.
the-novelization of the-rise of skywalker goes into more-detail about how palpatine transferred palpatine consciousness into the-cloned-body the-sith-eternal prepared for palpatine.
legends non-canonical-members of the-sith ====
appearing in a-variety of media created prior to the-advent of the-2015-feature-film star-wars: the-force awakens.
future-authors and screenwriters are not required to honor all of the-events depicted in this-material, but the-expanded-universe has remained a-source of creative-inspiration.
eu thoroughly details the-schism between the-dissident-“dark-jedi” and the-jedi-establishment that led to the-creation of the-sith-order, as well a-series of conflicts between the-sith, jedi and the-galactic-republic spanning the-millennia prior to the-events of the-star-wars-motion-picture-series, and certain-events thereafter.
in the-eu, the-sith trace their-origins to the-followers of a-dissident-jedi named ajunta pall, who endorsed the-use of the-dark-side of the-force, contrary to jedi-orthodoxy.
notable-conflicts between the-sith and the-galactic-republic include the-"great-hyperspace-war," in which the-sith would launch a-massive-invasion of the-galactic-republic but succumb to infighting, and the-“sith-holocaust,” in which the-galactic-republic failed in the-galactic-republic attempt to exterminate the-sith from known-space, leading the-sith survivors to take a-vow of eternal-vengeance on the-galactic-republic.
it provides a-new-adventure that includes princess-leia, r2-d2,-c-3po, luke-skywalker and darth-vader.
in the-story, darth-vader tries to get the-kyber-crystal to use the-kyber-crystal for darth-vader evil schemes.
cloak of deception describes the-political-background surrounding the-republic in the-time-period before the-phantom-menace, as well as darth-sidious'-plans to rule the-galaxy, starting with the-blockade of naboo.
shadow-hunter provided insight into the-sith while detailing how the-sith lord darth sidious brought the-sith lord darth sidious plan of usurpation into action.
the-sith appear as major-antagonists throughout this-story's-plot.
many of the-comics that were published helped expand the-backstory of the-characters and followed the-rise and fall of the-dark-lords of the-sith.
darth-caedus (jacen-solo) was a-dark-lord of the-sith born as the-oldest-son of han-solo and leia-organa-solo.
after absorbing force-energy from numerous-locations across the-galaxy using the-scepter,-tavion-and-tavion-cult traveled to korriban and almost succeeded in resurrecting ragnos, but were stopped by luke-skywalker's-new-jedi-order.
however, jaden was able to defeat ragnos, whose-spirit left tavion's-body and returned to the-depths of the-force, swearing revenge against the-jedi.
== was a-bith-dark-lord of the-sith who served as darth-tenebrous'-secret-apprentice, as it was a-violation of the-rule of two.
when revan prepared to battle the-jedi who boarded revan flagship, malak betrayed revan, ordering the-ships under revan command to fire on revan's flagship's bridge, so that revan could take over sith-empire for revan.
the-sith-lords is revealed to have been a-sith-master at the-end of the-game, and is ultimately killed in battle.
the-exile confronted nihilus on the-exile ship, and nihilus was killed either after the-exile former slave visas sacrificed his-former-slave-visas due to his-former-slave-visas shared link in the-force, or after the-exile attempt to feast on the-exile's-connection to the-force backfired and weakened the-exile.
when that-empire fell, that-empire led an-exodus of survivors to the-other-side of the-galaxy to establish a-continuation of it, with the-emperor.
a-male-human-dark-lord of the-sith who trained under vindican , darth-malgus ===== served the-sith empire during the-great-galactic-war against the-old-republic.
although malgus believed that the-battle of coruscant was the-first-step of destroying the-republic, the-republic only served as leverage in the-peace-negotiations that took place on alderaan.
while the-alderaanian-summit progressed, the-sith settled into an-occupation of coruscant.
although leneer ultimately failed, the-conflict caused malgus to become disillusioned with the-empire and to kill malgus lover eleena daru, seeing their-relationship as a-weakness that prevented malgus from preserving malgus own power, which malgus later used to cleanse the-empire of the-politicians whom malgus blamed for allowing the-republic to survive.
towards the-end of the-war, following the-presumed-death of the-sith-emperor and the-sith-emperor service on the-dark-council, malgus formed the-empirethe-empire, free of the-infighting of the-dark-council.
however, the-republic and the-sith-empire-forces soon teamed up to fight against the-empire and managed to track malgus down to malgus secret base, where the-republic and the-sith-empire-forces defeated malgus.
however, following the-battle of corellia, malgus went rogue, determined to expunge all-physical-and-mental-restraints used to keep malgus under control.
darth-vader have become iconic-villains in popular-culture.
palpatine is archetypal as the-"evil-emperor"—a-cunning-tyrant who rules through deception, propaganda, fear and oppression.
although usually considered as a-villainous-"enforcer" of such-power, darth-vader has also been regarded as a-tragic-figure and cautionary-study in the-corruption of a-hero who loses sight of the-greater-good and resorts to evil-practices out of fear and desperation.
references == ==
book of sith: secrets from the-dark-side (chronicle books, © 2013)
the-sith explained (howstuffworks.com)
who's who of the-sith on sithorder.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars is a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas.
attack of the-clones and episode iii: revenge of the-sith.
the-clone-wars was a-massive-ratings-success, becoming one of cartoon-network's-highest-rated-shows during the-clone-wars initial run.
throughout the-clone-wars run, the-previous-series received mostly-positive-reception from critics, receiving praise for the-clone-wars writing, action, characters, visuals, voice-acting, music, scale and tone.
in early 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down".
star-wars is set during the-prequel-trilogy-era, in the-period of three-years between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
star-wars focuses on the-eponymous-conflict between the-galactic-republic, which is supported by the-jedi-order, and the-confederacy of independent-systems, a-movement organized by the-sith-lord-count-dooku to unite numerous-planetary-systems seeking independence from the-republic against star-wars.
unbeknownst to the-galaxy, darth-sidious, dooku's-secret-master, is the-one pulling the-strings of both-sides, as part of his-master-plan to eliminate the-jedi and gain enough-power to create a-new-governing-state under his-rule.
season one focuses on various-battles fought between the-republic and the-separatists, and their-efforts to convince more-planets and races to join their.
season focuses heavily on bounty-hunter-characters, with one-story-arc featuring darth-sidious hiring cad-bane to steal a-holocron from the-jedi-temple on coruscant that will help hunter locate force-sensitive-children, while another-deals with boba-fett beginning boba-fett bounty hunter career and, alongside a-group of more-experienced-mercenaries, seeking revenge against mace-windu for killing mace-windu father.
other-major-story-arcs focus on the-planet-mandalore, which took a-neutral-stance in the-clone-wars and whose pacifist leader, duchess-satine-kryze, is targeted by both-the-separatists and the-mandalorian-terrorist-faction death-watch; and the-jedi-leading-republic-forces in an-assault on the-main-separatist-battle-droid-manufacturing-facility on geonosis.
during season three, several-story-arcs focus on the-development of certain-characters, such as anakin, who is led to an-ancient-force-realm alongside obi-wan and ahsoka, and learns more about the-nature of the-force and his-role as the chosen one; ahsoka, who defies anakin's orders to join his-team in a-mission to break a-jedi-master out of a-separatist-prison, and must later lead her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans when her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans find her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans hunted by trandoshans; and ventress, who is betrayed by dooku, returns to her-nightsister-clan on dathomir, and tries to exact revenge on her through a-jedi-master new apprentice, savage-opress, who ultimately turns on both ventress and dooku to follow his-own-path.
in season four, one-story-arc focuses on the-501st-legion, who must act independently for the-first-time when the-jedi-general they have been temporarily assigned to serve under is revealed to be a-traitor, and manipulates they into killing each other, forcing the-clones to capture and execute the-jedi-general.
other-story-arcs feature obi-wan faking obi-wan death and going undercover as a-bounty-hunter to thwart a-plot to capture chancellor-palpatine; ventress abandoning obi-wan sith ways and becoming a-bounty-hunter after the-separatists'-massacre of the-nightsisters; and savage finding savage-long-lost-brother, darth-maul, who seeks revenge against obi-wan for obi-wan
in the first one, the-republic helps a-group of rebels from onderon, led by siblings-steela and saw-gerrera, liberate a-group of rebels from onderon, led by siblings-steela and saw-gerrera planet from separatist-occupation.
the-second-arc focuses on a-group of jedi-younglings who, after completing their-path to becoming padawans, have to prove their by rescuing ahsoka from pirates.
the-fourth-arc deals with the-return of darth-maul, who joins forces with death-watch and other-criminal-syndicates to take over mandalore and exact revenge on obi-wan.
the-final-arc features ahsoka being framed for bombing the-jedi-temple, and having to prove her-innonence while on the-run from the-republic.
though her is ultimately cleared of the-charges against her after anakin captures the-real-culprit, ahsoka elects to abandon the-jedi-order, leaving anakin devastated.
clone-trooper-fives investigating the-premature-activation of order 66 in a-fellow-trooper's-mind, and discovering the-truth about the-inhibitor-chips implanted in each-clone's-brain, only to be silenced by palpaine before palpaine can expose palpaine;
padmé trying to help padmé old-flame-rush-clovis expose the-corruption in the-intergalactic-banking-clan, which causes tensions in rush-clovis and anakin's-relationship when rush-clovis learns about rush-clovis secret mission and intervines; jar-jar-binks and mace-windu rescuing the-captured-queen of bardotta from a-cult headed by the-nightsisters'-former-leader, mother-talzin; and yoda embarking on a-journey to learn more about the-nature of the-force after palpaine is visited by the-spirit of the-late-qui-gon-jinn.
the-final-arc, which is set concurrently with revenge of the-sith, depicts the-siege of mandalore, a-battle that had been referenced in previous-star-wars-media.
ahsoka reluctantly returns to the-republic to lead an-assault alongside captain-rex and mandalorian-warrior bo-katan-kryze against darth-maul's-forces on mandalore in hopes of capturing him.
unbeknowst to them, maul has foreseen the-fall of the-republic and the-jedi-order, and darth-sidious turning anakin to the-dark-side, and hopes to prevent these-events by killing the latter.
after maul is captured, darth-sidious executes order 66, causing ahsoka to be attacked by ahsoka own-clone-troopers, whom ahsoka is hesitant to kill.
ahsoka manages to restore rex's-free-will, and releases maul to cause a-distraction, but rex ends up disabling the-ship they are on.
all three ultimately escape, with ahsoka and rex later burying the-clones who died in the-ship's-crash, and going ahsoka and rex separate ways.
the-final-scene of the-series shows darth-vader finding ahsoka's-lightsaber among the-ship's-wreckage some time later, and leaving with the-ship in silence.
for a-theatrically-released-animated-film, christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood reprised anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood roles as count-dooku, c-3po, mace-windu, and the-b1-battle-droids, respectively, from the-live-action-movies, but christopher-lee, anthony-daniels, samuel-l.-jackson, and matthew-wood would not return for the-series.
despite this, the-clone-wars was one of the-few-pieces of star-wars-media to remain part of the-new-continuity established by disney, and a-sixth-season was released on march 7, 2014 on netflix, along with additional-media, such as comic-books and novels, based on unfinished-story-arcs that would have been included in the-season.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes in a-seventh-season to be released on disney+.
sansweet referred to the-series as "the-next-generation of the-star-wars-saga, a-cutting-edge-30-minute,-3-d-computer-animation-series based on the-clone-wars that take place between episode ii ... and episode iii."
lucas revealed further-information in a-fan-interview, including a-new-character named ahsoka tano, over 100-episodes and a-possible-appearance by boba-fett.
"the-"young-padawans"-arc from season 5 was intended to be aired separately from the-clone-wars as a-feature-length-pilot for a-spin-off-series that never materialized.
the-clone-wars premiered on october 3, 2008 at 9-p.m. on cartoon-network.
the-clone-wars began airing on their-adult-swim-block on march 14, 2009, making the-series the first cartoon network series to simultaneously air on both-cartoon-network and adult-swim.
on march 11, 2013, it was announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down" to focus on the-star-wars sequel trilogy and a new series, star-wars-rebels.
one of the-most-well-known-edits was the-removal of the-character ventress kissing a-clone after the-character had stabbed him with the-character lightsaber.
the-clone-wars – the-lost-missions.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "with an-agreeably-entertaining-first-season, star-wars: the-clone-wars opens a-fun,-kid-friendly-chapter of the-franchise's-sprawling-mythology.
: the-clone-wars a fitting end to the-series.
tech-times said that, "while the-star-wars-prequel-films fail to make audiences care about characters like anakin-skywalker, the-clone-wars succeeds.
during may 2020, following the-release of the-seventh-season on disney+, the-clone-wars became the-most-streamed-digital-original-show in the-united-states.
a-four-episode-arc continued the-story of darth-maul: son of dathomir ====
following the-events from the-season-5-episode "the-lawless", detailing his-escape from sidious; darth maul: son of dathomir ==== regains control of the-criminal-shadow-collective, and battles dooku, grievous, and sidious.
the-story follows jedi-quinlan-vos partnering up with ventress, hoping to execute count-dooku.
the-arc took place on utapau with obi-wan and anakin investigating an-arms-deal involving the-separatists and a-kyber-crystal.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes, another-action-adventure-game taking place between season 1 and season 2, released on october 9, 2009 for microsoft-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii, playstation portable, playstation 2 and nintendo ds.
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes, another-action-adventure-game taking place between season 1 and season 2, released on october 9, 2009 for microsoft-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii, playstation portable, playstation 2 and nintendo dsplaystation 3.
each-copy of the-game comes with the-playset, "twilight of the-republic", which is an-alternate-storyline set during the-clone-wars-era, along with two-starting-characters, anakin and ahsoka.
wood, taylor, lanter and burton also reprise wood, taylor, lanter and burton voice roles for four-new-playable-heroes (general-grievous, obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker and count-dooku, respectively) being added to the-game's-third-season in late 2018, themed after the-clone-wars.
references == ==
the-clone-wars at starwars.com
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at the-big-cartoon-database
the-clone-wars at imdb-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at tv.com
references ==
ventress returned as a-major-antagonist in the-canonical-2008-animated-film the-clone-wars and the-follow-up-television-series of the-same-name, now voiced by nika-futterman, though she eventually redeemed she, becoming an anti-heroine.
a powerful dark jedi with exceptional-lightsaber-combat-abilities, ventress wields dual-lightsabers with curved-handles that can attach together and form a-double-bladed-weapon with a-curve in the-middle.
originally-a-nightsister of dathomir who was sold as a-slave , originally-a-nightsister of dathomir who was sold as a-slave later became a-jedi-padawan, and eventually-an-informal-sith-apprentice to count-dooku after falling to the-dark-side of the-force as a-result of originally-a-nightsister of dathomir who was sold as a-slave jedi-master's-death in battle.
trained as dooku's-personal-assassin, ventress was assigned various-missions during the-first-years of the-clone-wars and came into conflict with the-jedi, primarily-obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker, and ahsoka-tano.
however, after being betrayed and left for dead by dooku on the-orders of dooku master, darth-sidious, ventress rejoined the-nightsisters and attempted to exact revenge on dooku, before settling on becoming a-bounty-hunter.
ventress became a-favorite among fans, regularly placing in fan-polls and star-wars-character-ranking-lists.
episode-ii – attack of the-clones developed a-villainess as a-potential-main-antagonist.
the-force unleashed, with no-relation to ventress.
the-clone-wars ==
ventress is an-antagonist in the 2008
ventress fights jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker and apprentice-ahsoka-tano, who rescue rotta, and later also battles jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi, who defeats her, forcing her to flee.
ventress is a-lead-character in all-five-broadcast-seasons of the-subsequent-the-clone-wars-animated-series.
in season one, ventress travels to the-moon of rugosa as dooku's-emissary to form an-alliance between the-planet-toydaria and the-separatists.
dooku orders ventress to spy on the-planet-kamino for the-separatist-forces, planning an-invasion with general-grievous to destroy the-clone-production-facilities while stealing jango-fett's-dna-template from the-production-facility.
ventress then frees trade-federation-viceroy-nute-gunray from the-custody of luminara-unduli and ahsoka, fighting the-two-jedi before ultimately succeeding in her-mission.
however, warlord-osika-kirske killed narec before ventress could become a-full-fledged-jedi.
eventually, darth-sidious comes to see ventress as a-liability, and orders dooku to eliminate narec.
dooku attempts, unsuccessfully, to kill narec, as narec engages anakin and obi-wan in one-final-duel, in which narec is wounded.
she turns to the-nightsisters of dathomir for help, and they engineer savage-opress to serve as dooku's-new-apprentice in order to earn savage-opress trust, before ultimately killing savage-opress on ventress'-behalf.
the-scheme fails, however, when savage-opress turns on both-dooku and ventress and attempts to kill them both.
in season four, ventress returns to the-nightsisters of dathomir.
ventress undergoes the-ritual to become a-full-fledged-nightsister, but is thwarted when grievous'-droid-army slaughter the-nightsisters of dathomir while grievous'-droid-army matriarch mother talzin is rendered incorporeal.
told by mother-talzin to find ventress-own-path, ventress later helps boba-fett's-team of bounty-hunters in a-dangerous-but-profitable-mission.
ventress teams up with she-old-nemesis to fight maul and opress, but they are ultimately forced to escape in they shuttle.
in season five's-final-arc, ventress nearly apprehends ahsoka, who has been framed for attempting to destroy the-jedi-temple.
she ultimately helps ahsoka escape on the-condition that she would be exonerated.
ventress later helps anakin to find out that barriss-offee framed ahsoka.
in the-2015-novel-dark-disciple, based on unfinished-episodes from the-clone-wars, ventress teams up with undercover-jedi-master-quinlan-vos in an-"un-jedi like"-mission to kill dooku.
ventress falls in love with undercover-jedi-master-quinlan-vos.
after undercover-jedi-master-quinlan-vos is turned to the-dark-side by dooku, ventress ultimately manages to redeem undercover-jedi-master-quinlan-vos, but ventress is killed by dooku with force-lightning shortly after.
when sith-lord-count-dooku arrives to add the-planet-rattatak to sith-lord-count-dooku separatist movement, sith-lord-count-dooku witnesses asajj ventress fighting several-opponents in a-large-arena, defeating them all before claiming to be a-sith-warrior.
when sith-lord-count-dooku laughs aside the-notion that sith-lord-count-dooku could be a-sith, asajj-ventress tries to attack sith-lord-count-dooku, but sith-lord-count-dooku renders sith-lord-count-dooku unconscious with force-lightning.
although ventress is defeated, dooku is impressed by her-abilities and recruits her to be dooku apprentice by appealing to her-hatred of the-jedi.
darth-sidious later personally assigns ventress to kill anakin-skywalker, and dooku presents the-jedi with a-new-pair of lightsabers with curved-hilts.
after ventress leaves, darth-sidious remarks that darth-sidious is certain to fail, but that darth-sidious will serve as a-useful-test for anakin.
ventress then engages the-republic-fighter-forces in orbit of the-planet-muunilinst and lures anakin into a-chase.
ventress and anakin go to yavin-iv, and a-fierce-battle from the-forest to the-massassi-temple takes place.
though she initially gains the-upper-hand in ventress and anakin-duel, anakin calls upon anakin immense connection to the-force and brutally overpowers anakin, causing anakin to fall over the-edge of a-cliff.
as portrayed in the-novel the-cestus-deception, ventress appears on ord-cestus during the-bio-droid-crisis.
ventress also destroys the-republic-cruiser carrying barrister-doolb-snoil returning to the-republic; however, barrister-doolb-snoil survives.
ventress later challenges kenobi and ventress fellow jedi master kit fisto to a-duel.
ventress disarms fisto but is then engaged by kenobi.
their-duel leads their into an-underwater-chamber and ventress is forced to escape after kenobi slices ventress across ventress abdomen.
in the-star-wars: republic story " the-new-face of war", ventress joins forces with the-bounty-hunter-durge on the-invasion of naboo's-moon, ohma-d'un.
in the-ensuing-battle with republic-forces, ventress makes ventress first public appearance in the-war (in the-chronological-timeline).
ventress kills jedi-master-glaive in the-ensuing-battle with republic-forces and cuts off jedi-master-glaive apprentice zule's left arm.
ventress engages obi-wan and the-pair are evenly matched.
ventress escapes with durge after arc-trooper-alpha destroys their-fueling-station.
in star-wars: jedi---mace-windu, dooku sends ventress to ruul to help frame mace-windu.
ventress briefly confronts sora-bulq, who had been secretly corrupted by dooku, as a-ruse.
ventress kills mira in the-battle and then engages jedi-masters-sian-jeisel, k'-kruhk and rhad-tarn all of whom she defeats singlehandedly.
after framing windu for the-crime, ventress corrupts tarn.
while tarn fights against jeisel, ventress defeats k'kruhk in combat.
windu's-timely-arrival saves the-jedi; ventress finds that she is no-match for windu's-power and is forced to flee.
in the-republic-story-"blast-radius", ventress and durge again engage the-the-jedi-taskforce in a-facility on the-planet-queyta.
ventress briefly fights against kenobi and fay.
ventress uses ventress lightsabers to collapse the-ceiling, sending a-shower of lava onto diath's-head.
although the-separatists claim a-victory, ventress spares obi-wan's-life under dooku's-orders, though obi-wan's impales fay in the-chest with obi-wan's lightsabers.
fay gives obi-wan the last of fay strength to escape the-facility.
in "the-battle of jabiim", ventress captures obi-wan and alpha from jabiim and transports them to rattatak for torture and interrogation.
obi-wan and alpha escape in the-following-story, "hate & fear", and the-jedi-master takes ky-narec's-lightsaber, making the-animosity between him and ventress deeply personal.
in "dreadnoughts of rendili", ventress and fellow-dark-jedi-tol-skorr fight obi-wan and quinlan-vos on titavian-iv.
obi-wan unleashes a-rancor to distract ventress, but obi-wan manipulates ventress via the-dark-side.
obi-wan fights ventress after killing the-rancor but obi-wan escapes with quinlan-vos before the-duel is settled.
grievous arrives to rescue the-two-dark-jedi, shaming ventress in the-two-dark-jedi master dooku's eyes.
ventress then travels to coruscant to kill quinlan-vos and obi-wan.
enraged, anakin engages ventress.
during the-duel, ventress scars skywalker's-face
ventress survives ventress encounter with anakin on coruscant but is badly injured.
ventress is sent to boz-pity where dooku places ventress in a-bacta-tank and fits ventress with cybernetic-modifications.
one month later, obi-wan infiltrates the-facility.
ventress wakes up and subsequently attacks obi-wan.
she fights against both-obi-wan and anakin but is abandoned when dooku orders an-ig-100-magnaguard to kill she as she runs towards dooku's shuttle.
enraged and badly wounded, ventress tries to kill obi-wan as obi-wan tries to help obi-wan.
anakin slashes anakin from behind, mortally wounding anakin.
as anakin lies dying, anakin tells anakin the-location of the-separatists'-next-target.
believing ventress to be dead, obi-wan puts obi-wan on a-ship bound for coruscant.
however, ventress survives by placing herself in a-sith-trance.
ventress is also a-villain in star-wars-battlefront:
ventress appears in the-star-wars: the clone wars video game spin-offs:
the-clone-wars---jedi-alliance where she is seen on coruscant holding ziro the-hutt-hostage.
the-clone-wars---jedi-alliance where she is seen on coruscant holding ziro the-hutt-hostage have to defeat she in order to gain more-information on the-nightsisters.
ventress appears in the-game
ventress has a-non-canon-appearance in the-playstation 2, wii, and playstation-portable-versions of star-wars:
the-force unleashed as a-costume-skin that can be used on starkiller, the-main-character of the-game.
the-force unleashed-ii.
the-character is featured in several-star-wars-games that were released after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm: ventress appears in the-tower-defense-game
ventress is a-playable-character in star-wars: galaxy of heroes, a-turn-based-rpg.
ventress is classified as a-nightsister and a-separatist-support, armed with powerful-area of effect-moves, and can grow stronger when characters are defeated.
ventress is a-playable-character in lego-star-wars:
the-force awakens via downloadable-content.
ventress is mentioned in the-2017-reboot of star-wars: battlefront-ii.
ventress is indirectly mentioned in the-2019-video-game star-wars-jedi:
references == ==
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), forming what is collectively referred to as a-trilogy of trilogies, better known as the-"skywalker-saga".
years later, a-prequel-trilogy was released, consisting of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
after lucasfilm was sold to disney, a-sequel-trilogy began with episode-vii – the-force awakens (2015), continued with episode-viii –
the-last-jedi (2017), and concluded with episode-ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-main-star-wars-film-series was released beginning with the-original-trilogy (episodes-iv, v and vi, 1977–1983), followed by the-prequel-trilogy (episodes i, ii and iii, 1999–2005) and the sequel trilogy (episodes vii, viii and ix, 2015–2019).
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) and concludes with episode ix – the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-story follows each-generation of the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family and the-force-sensitive-skywalker-family struggle against the-evil-sith-lord-palpatine (darth-sidious).
the-prequel trilogy focuses on anakin-skywalker, his-training as a-jedi, and eventual-fall to the-dark-side as darth-vader.
the-original-trilogy follows his-children, luke and leia, as his-children, luke and leia join the-rebel-alliance and battle-vader, palpatine and his-galactic-empire.
the-original-trilogy features ben-solo-a.k.a-kylo-ren—the-son of leia and han-solo, nephew of luke, and grandson of anakin—who seeks to rule the-galaxy with rey, the-granddaughter of palpatine and the-last-jedi-apprentice of luke and leia.
the-battle for endor (1985), the first of which was screened internationally after being produced for television.
an-animated-film, the-clone-wars (2008), was released as a-pilot to a-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-first-entry, rogue one: a-star-wars-story (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans directly before episode-iv.
a-star-wars-story (2018) focuses on han's-backstory, also featuring chewbacca and lando-calrissian.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
it reveals that anakin trained an-apprentice between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith; the-series explains padawan-ahsoka-tano's-absence from the-latter-film.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-death-star-laser was developed by scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) after the-empire forcibly abducted scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen), separating scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) from scientist-galen-erso (played by mads-mikkelsen) daughter-jyn.
solo, the-second-anthology-film, focuses on han solo about 10 years before a-new-hope.
after an-escape-attempt from his-imperial-occupied-home-planet of corellia goes wrong, a-young-han vows to return to rescue a-young-han girlfriend qi'ra.
without a-ship to travel, after angering gangster-dryden-vos, han and his-company's-lives hire lando-calrissian, the-captain and owner of the-millennium-falcon.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
a-twist-ending acknowledges one of the-major-story-arcs of the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-series, while leaving the-story open ended for sequels.
the-ewoks from return of the-jedi were featured in two-spin-off-television-films, the-ewok-adventure and ewoks:
the-battle for endor.
both-films are set between the-events of the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
the-battle for endor would be the-last-live-action-star-wars-television-project produced by lucasfilm until 2019's-the-mandalorian.
the-battle for endor (1985) ====
the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
at the-37th-primetime-emmy-awards, ewoks: the-battle for endor and the-cbs-documentary-dinosaur!
felicity-jones, who played jyn-erso in rogue-one, has the-option of another-star-wars-film in her-contract; notwithstanding her-character's-fate in rogue-one, it has been speculated that her could return in other-anthology-films.
references ==
however, due to the-bitter-relationship between roddenberry and paramount at the-time, scheimer was not able to get the-two-parties talking to each other in order to agree on a-deal for several-years.
at the-end of the-first-season of star-trek:
the-timeline in voyages of the-imagination dates the-events of the-series to 2269–2270, assuming the-events of the-show represented the-final-part of kirk's-five-year-mission, and using revised-alan-dean-foster-stardates.
enterprise episodes "the-catwalk" and "the-forge" included references to "yesteryear", the latter featuring a-cgi-rendition of a-wild-sehlat.
the-2009-film star-trek also references "yesteryear", featuring a-nearly-identical-scene in which a-young-spock is confronted by several-other-vulcan-children, who bully and provoke a-young-spock for being part human.
in recent-years, references to the-animated-series have also cropped up again in the-licensed-books and comics.
the-animated-series (aka-the-animated-adventures of gene-roddenberry’s-star-trek) was presented in the-animated-series (aka-the-animated-adventures of gene-roddenberry’s-star-trek) original-network-television-format and original-airdate order - uncut and unedited - and also remastered and restored in 1080p hd and full-color with remastered and remixed 5.1-surround-sound and restored original-mono-audio.
references ==
from the-adventures of luke-skywalker (1976), the novelization of the-1977-film.
the-empire strikes back (1980).
an-adaptation of the-third-theatrical-film, return of the-jedi, was released as a-separate-four-issue-limited-series (1983–1984).two-novel-trilogies with original-storylines were written, the-han-solo-adventures by brian-daley (1979–1980), and 1983's-the-adventures of lando-calrissian by l.-neil-smith.
two-spin-off-television-films focusing on the-life of the-ewoks, introduced in return of the-jedi, aired in 1984 and 1985.
zahn was critical of the-concept of resurrecting emperor-palpatine through cloned-bodies, feeling the-concept of resurrecting emperor-palpatine through cloned-bodies undermined and contradicted the-meaning of the-ending of return of the-jedi.
the-jedi-prince-series of young-reader-novels, released between 1992 and 1993, depicts luke, leia, and han about a year after return of the-jedithe-jedi.
special-editions and shadows of the-empire ===
the-1996-steve-perry-novel-shadows of the-empire, set in the-as-yet-unexplored-time-period between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, was part of a-multimedia-campaign that also included a-comic-book-series and video-game.
lucas incorporated elements of the-expanded-universe into lucas's 1997 special editions of the-original-trilogy; for example, coruscant, the-new-republic-capital-planet created by zahn in the-thrawn-trilogy, made its-film-debut in the-special-edition of return of the-jedi, before being featured more heavily in the-prequel-trilogy.
prequel-film-trilogy and the-clone-wars ===
before 1999, the-bulk of expanded-universe-storytelling explored the-time-periods either after return of the-jedi or long before a-new-hope (e.g.-the-tales of the-jedi series).
the-time-period shortly before the-original-trilogy (including the-rise of the-galactic-empire and the-personal-histories of anakin-skywalker and emperor-palpatine) was left open for lucas to develop in the-form of a-prequel-trilogy, which begin with episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999).
attack of the-clones (2002).
the-2003-animated-series clone-wars and various-spin-off-books, comics, and video-games explore the-titular-conflict in more-detail leading up to episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
these reveal that anakin had a-padawan-learner, ahsoka-tano, during this-period.
holocron was divided into five-levels of canon (in order of precedence):
chee, chee said the-death of chewbacca in vector-prime was a-key-factor in the-decision.
after the-force awakens, multiple-films were released, including the-anthology-films rogue one (2016)
the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
the-line takes place 200 years prior to the-events of the-phantom-menace and will not overlap any-films or series currently planned for production.
back and return of the-jedi.
references =
references == ===
the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise, the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise is a-prequel to star-trek: the-original-series, set in the-22nd-century, a-hundred-years before the-events of the-original-series and just prior to the-formation of the-united-federation of planets.
the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise follows the-adventures of the-enterprise, earth's-first-starship capable of traveling at warp five, as the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise explores the-galaxy and encounters various-alien-species.
ten years after the-end of the-series, braga stated that future-guy was archer manipulating archer own-timeline; archer and berman had previously stated that the-character was intended to be a-romulan.
in order to complete this-mission,-six-species that make up the-xindi took on additional-crew-members in the-form of military-assault-command-operations (abbreviated as maco)-soldiers, due to the-increased-military-nature of the-task.
archer was envisaged as being a-cross between chuck-yeager and han-solo by executive-producer-rick-berman, while brannon-braga said that brannon-braga was more "laidback and relatable".
prior to the-end of star-trek: voyager and following the-end of star-trek:
instead, the-producers opted to create a-prequel to the-original-series set after the-events in the-film star-trek: first-contact, as braga and berman felt it was a-period in the star-trek universe which was unexplored.
vaughn-armstrong, who played admiral-maxwell-forest, had previously appeared in a-number of roles in various-trek-productions since his-first-part as a-klingon in the-next-generation episode "heart of glory"; by the-end of the-enterprise run, his had appeared as 13-different-characters in total.
the-series was considered for cancellation at the-end of the-second-season, with paramount-executives instead requesting a-number of changes to enterprise in order to renew the-series following a-letter writing campaign from fans.
fans were resigned to cancellation at the-end of the-third-season, but were surprised when the-series was renewed, which was due in part to a-reduction in the-fees-paramount was charging upn on a per-episode basis.
the-end of the-series marked the-first-time in 18-years that no-new-star-trek-episodes were scheduled for broadcast, and enterprise was the-first-live-action-series of the-franchise since the-series to last less-than-seven-years.
these included the-expectation that the-show would begin to cover the-buildup to the-romulan-war, as well as continue to link to the-original-series with references to things such as the-cloud-city of stratos as seen in "the-cloud-minders".
however, the-viewing-figures began to decrease towards the-end of the-season.
books released subsequent to the-end of the-series as part of the-star-trek:
the-film star-trek into darkness (2013) references enterprise with a-model of the nx-01 in a-collection depicting the-history of flight in fleet-admiral-alexander-marcus'
the-earth-romulan-war, which occurred after the-events of the-series in the-official-timeline but was seeded during the-series, is also mentioned in beyond.
references ==
nbc instead decided to order 10-more-new-episodes for the-first-season, and order a-second-season in march 1967.
so prevalent was this-plot-device that it inspired the-term "redshirt" to denote a-stock-character whose-sole-purpose is to die violently in order to show the-danger facing the-main-characters.
the-sequel to the-original-series, star-trek: the-next-generation, which premiered in 1987, was set about 100 years after the-events of tos.
the-trouble with tribbles" (koloth) and "errand of mercy" (kor), continue to serve the-empire well into the-24th-century.
deep-space-nine-episode-"trials and tribble-ations" with the-intent to return to deep-space-station-k7 in 2267 and assassinate kirk, whom darvin blamed for his-disgrace in the-klingon-empire.
references ==
beginning roughly ten years before the-events of star-trek:
a-science-specialist on the-uss-discovery who is promoted to captain at the-end of the-third-season.
fuller had publicly called for star-trek to return to television for years, particularly because of fuller impact on minority-groups, as fuller explained, "i couldn't stop thinking about how-many-black-people were inspired by seeing nichelle-nichols on the-bridge of a-ship.
at the-end of october, cbs asked fuller to step down as showrunner, and announced a-restructuring of the-production: berg and harberts were made sole showrunners, working from a broad story arc and overall-mythology established by fuller; kurtzman and fuller would continue as executive-producers, but with fuller moving fuller attention fully to american-gods; and akiva-goldsman would join the-series' in a-supporting-producer-role, similar to the-role fuller held on fringe alongside kurtzman.
by the-end of august, berg and harberts had developed a-"road-map" for a-second-season and "the-beginnings of one" for a-third.
goldsman did not return for the-second-season after clashing with the-series writing staff during production on the first, while meyer was not asked to return for the-second-season.
on using time-travel in the-series, a plot device used in at-least-two-episodes of every-previous-live-action-star-trek-season, fuller said that it had not yet been used for any-episode by the-end of august 2016, and, "you never know when you want to pull out that-device
fuller anticipated casting-announcements in october, but none had been made by the-end of that-month.
at the-end of april, shazad-latif was revealed to have been recast in the-role of starfleet-lieutenant-tyler.
some of the-series'-sets took over-six-weeks to create, and new-sets were being built up until the-end of production of the-season.
the-way to the-stars follows tilly at age 16 and shows the-events that inspired tilly to join starfleet.
the-enterprise-war is set before the-end of discovery's-first-season and follows the-crew of the-uss-enterprise led by captain-pike during a-mission in the-pergamum-nebula.
so the-story in the-comic will really matter and not just feel like a-one-off. "
it covers the-time after the-discovery travels to the-future at the-end of the-second-season and before spock goes back to duty aboard the-enterprise.
set during the-first-season of the-series following the-battle at the-binary-stars, the-event introduces a-story set on the-uss-glenn and includes wiseman.
references == ===
the-empire strikes back (1980) and episode-vi:
return of the-jedi (1983), forming the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas later returned to filmmaking to direct a-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii: attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker (2019).
a-mystical-power known as the-force is described in the-original-film as "an-energy-field created by all-living-things ...
[that] binds the-galaxy together".
the-force is wielded by two-major-knightly-orders at conflict with each other: the-jedi, peacekeepers of the-galactic-republic who act on the-light-side of the-force through non-attachment and arbitration, and the-sith, who use the-dark-side by manipulating fear and aggression.
while jedi-knights can be numerous, the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') are intended to be limited to two: a-master and the-dark-lords of the-sith (or 'darths') apprentice.
the-jedi and sith prefer the-use of a-weapon called a lightsaber, a-blade of energy that can cut through virtually-any-surface and deflect energy-bolts.
the-first-entry, rogue one (2016), tells the-story of the-rebels who steal the-death-star plans just before episode-iv.
solo (2018) focuses on han solo's backstory, also featuring original trilogy co-protagonists chewbacca and lando-calrissian and involving prequel trilogy-villain-darth-maul.
by 1974, he had expanded the-story into the-first-draft of a-screenplay.
most of the-main-cast would return for the-two-additional-installments of the-original-trilogy, which were self-financed by lucasfilm.
return of the-jedi was released on may 25, 1983.
the-story of the-original-trilogy focuses on luke-skywalker's-quest to become a-jedi, luke-skywalker's-struggle with the-evil-imperial-agent darth-vader, and the-struggle of the-rebel-alliance to free the-galaxy from the-clutches of the-galactic-empire.
a-theatrical-rerelease of the-original-trilogy in 1997 "updated" the-20-year-old-films with the-style of cgi envisioned for the-prequel-trilogy.
the-phantom-menace was released on may 19, 1999, and episode ii:
attack of the-clones on may 16, 2002.
episode iii: revenge of the-sith, the-first-pg-13-film in the-franchise, was released on may 19, 2005.
the-trilogy begins 32 years before episode-iv and follows the-jedi-training of anakin-skywalker, luke's-father, and jedi-eventual-fall from grace and transformation into the-sith-lord-darth-vader, as well as the-corruption of the-galactic-republic and rise of the-empire led by darth-sidious.
at various-stages of development, the-sequel-trilogy was to focus on the-rebuilding of the-republic, the return of luke in a-role similar to that of obi-wan in the-original-trilogy, luke's sister (not yet determined to be leia), han, leia, r2-d2 and c-3po.
the-sequel-trilogy also meant the-end of the-existing-star-wars-expanded-universe, which was discarded from canon to give "maximum-creative-freedom to the-filmmakers and also preserve an-element of surprise and discovery for the-audience.
the-last-jedi on december 13, 2017, and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker on december 18, 2019, in many-countries.
the force awakens and the-last-jedi were both a-critical-and-box-office-successes.
along with ex-stormtrooper-finn and ace-x-wing-pilot-poe-dameron, rey helps the-resistance, led by leia, fight the-first-order, commanded by han and leia's son (and luke's-nephew), kylo-ren.
a-star-wars-story, centered on a-young-han-solo with chewbacca and lando as supporting characters, was released on may 25, 2018, to generally-favorable-reviews and underperformance at the-box-office.
after orchestrating the-clone-wars between the-republic and a-separatist-confederation, palpatine exterminates the-jedi-order, overthrows the-high-republic, and establishes the-totalitarian-galactic-empire.
the-era after the-prequel-trilogy, exploring the-reign of the-empire includes the-animated-the-bad-batch and solo: a-star-wars-story.
the-era of the-original-trilogy, in which the-empire is fought by the-rebel-alliance in a-galactic-civil-war that spans several-years, climaxing with the-death of the-emperor and eventually resulting in the-fall of the-empire.
the-era of the-original-trilogy, in which the-empire is fought by the-rebel-alliance in a-galactic-civil-war that spans several-years, climaxing with the-death of the-emperor and eventually resulting in the-fall of the-empire includes the-animated-star-wars-rebels, rogue one, and the-original-trilogy films.
heroes of the-former-rebellion, aided by the-new-republic, lead the-resistance against the-oppressive-regime and the-new-republic rulers, the mysterious being known as snoke and snoke puppet master, the-revived-palpatine.
from 1976 to 2014, the-term expanded-universe (eu) was an-umbrella-term for all-officially-licensed-star-wars-storytelling-material set outside the-events depicted within the-theatrical-films, including novels, comics, and video-games.
the-star-wars-canon was subsequently restructured to only include the-existing-six-feature-films, the-animated-film the-clone-wars (2008), and the-star-wars-canon companion animated series.
the-novelizations of the empire strikes back (1980) by donald-f.-glut and return of the-jedi (1983) by james-kahn followed, as well as the-han-solo-adventures-trilogy (1979–1980) by brian-daley, and the-adventures of lando-calrissian-trilogy (1983) by l.-neil-smith.
the-first-novel, heir to the-empire, reached #1 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list, and the-series finds luke, leia, and han facing off against tactical-genius-thrawn, who is plotting to retake the-galaxy for the-empire.
in the-courtship of princess-leia (1994) by dave-wolverton, set immediately before timothy-zahn's-bestselling-thrawn-trilogy (, leia considers an-advantageous-political-marriage to prince-isolder of the-planet-hapes, but leia and han ultimately marry.
steve-perry's-shadows of the-empire (1996), set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, was part of a-multimedia-campaign that included a-comic-book-series and video-game.
del-rey took over star-wars-book-publishing in 1999, releasing what would become a-19-installment-novel-series called the new jedi order (1999–2003).
written by multiple-authors, a-19-installment-novel-series called the new jedi order (1999–2003) was set 25 to 30 years after the-original-films and introduced the-yuuzhan-vong, a-powerful-alien-race attempting to invade and conquer the-entire-galaxy.
the-bestselling-multi-author-series-legacy of the-force (2006–2008) chronicles the-crossover of han and leia's-son jacen-solo to the-dark-side of the-force;
although no longer canon, the-story is paralleled in the force awakens with han and leia's-son ben-solo, who has become the-dark-kylo-ren.
three-series set in the-prequel-era were introduced for younger-audiences: the-18-book-jedi-apprentice (1999–2002) chronicles the-adventures of obi-wan-kenobi and obi-wan-kenobi master qui-gon jinn in the-years before the-phantom-menace; the-11-book-jedi-quest (2001–2004) follows obi-wan-and-obi-wan-own-apprentice, anakin-skywalker in between the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones; and the 10-book
the last of the-jedi (2005–2008), set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, features obi-wan and the last few surviving the-jedi.
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing-rogue-squadron (1995–1998),-star-wars: republic (1998–2006),
star-wars: empire (2002–2006), and knights of the-old-republic (2006–2010).after-disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, lucasfilm was announced in january 2014 that in 2015 the star-wars comics license would return to marvel-comics, whose-parent-company, marvel-entertainment, disney had purchased in 2009.
for the-nine-episodic-films; john-williams has stated that john-williams will retire from the-franchise with the-rise of skywalker.
the-first-star-wars-audio-work is the-story of star-wars, an-lp using audio-samples from the-original-film and a-new-narration to retell the-story, released in 1977.
return of the-jedi was adapted into 6-episodes in 1996, featuring daniels.
the-empire strikes back, followed soon the year later by star-wars: jedi-arena, the-first-video-game to depict lightsaber-combat.
return of the-jedi (1984), has more-traditional-raster-graphics, while the-following-star-wars: the empire strikes back (1985) has vector-graphics.
the-empire strikes back (1992).
shadows of the-empire (1996) was a-multimedia-project set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi that included a-novel by steve-perry, a-comic-book-series, a-video-game, and action-figures.
the-force unleashed (2008–2010) was a-similar-project set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope that included a-novel, a-2008-video-game and the-sith 2010 sequel, a-graphic-novel, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and toys.
in 1977, the-board-game star-wars: escape from the-death-star was released.
anakin was conceived of a-virgin-birth, and is assumed to be the "chosen one", a-messianic-individual.
however, unlike jesus, anakin falls from grace, remaining evil as darth-vader until return of the-jedi.
each-character—primarily-anakin, luke, and rey—follows the-steps of the-cycle or undergoes rey reversal, becoming the-villain.
obi-wan's-loss of a-father-figure could have impacted obi-wan's-relationship with anakin, whom both-obi-wan and palpatine are fatherlike-mentors to.
luke's-discovery that vader is vader father has strong-repurcussions on the-saga and is regarded as one of the-most-influential-plot-twists in cinema.
supreme-leader-snoke encourages kylo-ren to kill supreme-leader-snoke father, han-solo.
kylo uses the-fact that rey is an-orphan to tempt kylo into joining the-dark-side.
according to inverse, the-final-scene in the-last-jedi, which depicts servant-children playing with a-toy of luke and one-boy using the-force, symbolizes that "the-force can be found in people with humble-beginnings."
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of darth-vader's.
palpatine being a-chancellor before becoming the-emperor in the-prequel
the-great-jedi-purge-mirrors the-events of the-night of the-long-knives.
on the-inspiration for the-first-order formed "from the-ashes of the-empire", the-force awakens
the-star-wars-saga has had a-significant-impact on popular-culture, with references to the-star-wars-saga fictional universe deeply embedded in everyday-life.
"may the-force be with you" have become part of the-popular-lexicon.
the-empire strikes back, was selected in 2010.
as the-characters and the-storyline of the-original-trilogy are so well known, educators have used the-films in the-classroom as a-learning-resource.
references == ===
references ==
the-story, set in the-star-wars-universe five years after star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, follows jedi-padawan-cal-kestis, who becomes a-target of the-galactic-empire and is hunted throughout the-galaxy by two-inquisitors while attempting to complete his-training, escape his-troubled-past, and rebuild the-fallen-jedi-order.
the-game received generally-favorable-reviews from critics and sold more-than-ten-million-copies by the-end of march 2020.
the-options-menu documents the-story as well as characters the-player meets, along with a-guide of how to defeat enemies.
fallen-order takes place five years after the-events of revenge of the-sith.
after cal is recorded by an-imperial-probe-droid while using the-force to save former jedi padawan cal kestis friend prauf, two-inquisitors known as the-second-sister and the-ninth-sister are sent to investigate.
she explains that she was captured by the-empire after cere betrayed she hidden location under torture, and warns cal that cere will inevitably betray him once they find the-holocron.
on dathomir, cal's-progress is impeded by nightsister-merrin, who blames the-jedi for the-massacre of her-people during the-clone-wars, and attempts to keep him away using an-army of revenants.
after experiencing a-flashback of his-former-master, jaro-tapal, sacrificing his to protect his during order 66, the-kyber-crystal of cal's-lightsaber is destroyed.
his meets former-jedi-taron-malicos, who crash-landed on dathomir during the-purge and has been seeking to learn the-magic of the-nightsisters, over time growing insane and succumbing to the-dark-side of the-force.
aboard the-stinger-mantis, cere admits cere cut cere connection to the-force after briefly falling to the-dark-side upon learning trilla became an-inquisitor.
cere then attempts to reconcile with cere former student, but darth-vader appears and kills trilla for cere failure, nearly killing cere and bd-1.
back on the-stinger-mantis, cal, having realized that gathering the-children would make it easier for the-empire to target the-children, destroys the-holocron, believing the-holocron to be better for the-children to discover the-children own destinies.
the-rise of skywalker.
fallen order on november 20, 2019.hasbro also produced three-figures in the-star-wars:
the-game sold more-than-8-million-copies by the-end of january 2020, exceeding ea's-expectations.
references == ==
lucas had planned a-prequel-trilogy (as well as a-sequel-trilogy) before the-release of the-original-film, but halted major-star-wars-films beyond the-original-trilogy by 1981.
a-prequel-trilogy (as well as a-sequel-trilogy) consists of episode-i – the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
the-films follow the-training of the-powerful-youth anakin-skywalker (the-father of the original trilogy protagonists luke-skywalker and leia-organa) as a-jedi under the-tutelage of jedi-masters-obi-wan-kenobi and yoda, obi-wan-kenobi fall to the-dark-side of the-force and birth as darth-vader.
the-trilogy also depicts the-corruption of the-galactic-republic, the-annihilation of the-jedi-order, and the-rise of the-empire under the-secret-sith-lord and future-galactic-emperor-palpatine.
in 1980, lucas confirmed that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but due to the-stress of producing the-original-trilogy and pressure from lucas wife to settle down, lucas had decided to cancel further-sequels by 1981.
before lucas chose to direct the-prequels, return of the-jedi-director-richard-marquand expressed interest on directing one of the-prequel-films, up until lucas death in 1987.
a-theatrical-rerelease of the-original-trilogy in 1997-'updated'-the-20-year-old-films with the-style of cgi envisioned for the-new-episodes.
the-phantom-menace was released on may 19, 1999.
the-phantom-menace sees the-jedi coming into contact with the-young-anakin-skywalker and the-corruption of the-galactic-senate by palpatine (darth-sidious).
attack of the-clones was released on may 16, 2002.
the-story jumps ahead 10 years and finds anakin—now-a-jedi-apprentice of obi-wan-kenobi—pursuing a-forbidden-romance, as well as the-outbreak of the-clone-wars.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, the-first-pg-13-film in the-franchise, was released on may 19, 2005.
it depicts anakin's-fall to the-dark-side of the-force and the-force rebirth as darth-vader.
i – the-phantom-menace ===
32 years before the-events of the-original-film, two-jedi-knights—qui-gon-jinn and his-apprentice obi-wan-kenobi—discover that the-corrupt-trade-federation has formed a-blockade around the-planet-naboo.
with the-help of naboo's-queen, padmé-amidala, qui-gon and obi-wan escape a-blockade around the-planet-naboo.
they land on tatooine to repair they starship, and meet a-nine-year-old-slave named anakin skywalker.
believing a-nine-year-old-slave named anakin skywalker to be the prophesied "chosen one", qui-gon takes anakin to be trained as a-jedi.
attack of the-clones ===
jedi-knight-obi-wan-kenobi and obi-wan-kenobi-apprentice, anakin, are assigned to protect jedi-knight-obi-wan-kenobi and his-apprentice, anakin; obi-wan tracks the-assassin, while anakin and padmé secretly fall in love.
meanwhile, chancellor palpatine schemes to draw the-galaxy into the-clone-wars between the-republic-army of clone-troopers led by the-jedi, and the-confederacy of independent-systems led by palpatine's-sith-apprentice, count-dooku.
in writing the-empire strikes back, lucas initially considered that lando-calrissian was a-clone from a-planet of clones which caused the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope.
he later came up with the-concept of an-army of clone-shock-troopers from a-remote-planet which attacked the-republic and were resisted by the-jedi.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith ===
three years into the-clone-wars, anakin becomes disillusioned with the-jedi-council and begins to have visions of padmé dying in childbirth.
palpatine convinces anakin that the-dark-side of the-force holds the-power to save padmé's-life.
desperate, anakin submits to palpatine and assumes the-sith-moniker darth-vader.
palpatine reveals palpatine as darth-sidious to the-jedi and orders their-extermination while declaring the-former-republic an empire.
vader engages in a-lightsaber-duel with obi-wan on the-volcanic-planet mustafar, while padmé dies after giving birth to twins.
lucas originally told concept-artists that the-earlier-film would open with a-montage of the-clone-wars, and included a-scene of palpatine revealing to anakin that palpatine had willed palpatine conception through the-force.
lucas reviewed and radically reorganized the-plot, having anakin execute dooku in the-first-act to foreshadow
anakin fall to the-dark-side.
lucas would now primarily turn to the-dark-side in a-quest to save padmé, rather than just believing that the-jedi are plotting to take over the-republic.
lucas made a-conscious-effort to parallel scenes and dialogue between the-prequel and original-trilogy, especially concerning the-journey of anakin-skywalker in the-prequels and that of lucas son luke in the-older-films.
the-star-wars-film-cycle features a-similar-christian-narrative involving anakin-skywalker; anakin-skywalker is the-"chosen-one"—the-individual prophesied to bring balance to the-force—who was conceived of a-virgin-birth.
however, unlike jesus, anakin falls from grace and seemingly fails to fulfill anakin destiny (until the-prophecy comes true in return of the-jedi).
palpatine being a-chancellor before becoming the-emperor in the-prequel
lucas has also drawn parallels between palpatine and historical-dictators such as julius-caesar and napoleon-bonaparte, as well as former-president of the-united-states richard-nixon.
the-great-jedi-purge depicted in revenge of the-sith mirrors the-events of the-night of the-long-knives.
common-criticisms surrounded the-over-reliance on computer-generated-imagery and green-screens, melodramatic-and-wooden-dialogue including scenes of romance between anakin and padmé,-slow-paced-political-scenes, and the-comic-relief-character of jar-jar-binks.
some have criticized this-design-choice by saying that it makes the-earlier-time-period appear to depict a-more-advanced-civilization, although revenge of the-sith brings the-design closer to that of trilogy.
conversely, some argue for trilogy's-positive-elements, including its-handling of political-issues, especially involving the-rise of fascism.
references ==
the-story follows delta-squad as delta-squad complete increasingly-difficult-missions throughout the-clone-wars and learn to bond as a-team.
many-critics praised the-story and combat, but criticized the-short-length and average-multiplayer.
the-player can order the-squad to move to secure any-position (wherever the-crosshair is pointed), or perform search-and-destroy.
if the-player-character is downed, the-player can order the-squad-members to attempt to revive the-player or to continue with the-squad-members current orders.
republic-commando maintains a-first-person-perspective throughout the-game, presenting the-story from the-eyes of delta-squad's-squad-leader, rc-1138-("boss").
the-game is set during the-events of the-clone-wars that started at the-climax of the-movie star-wars:
episode-ii – attack of the-clones.
following a-montage that briefly details delta-squad's-creation, early-life, and training at the-cloning-facilities on kamino, the-game begins with the-team being deployed into the-front-lines of the-battle of geonosis at the-onset of the-clone-wars.
delta-squad fight delta-squad way to the-gunnery-deck to activate the-ship's-turbo-lasers in order to defend delta-squad.
after destroying the-depot, delta-squad is deployed to the-city of kachirho, setting in motion the-battle of kashyyyk.
soldiering through separatists-forces, delta-squad once again splits up to man four-heavy-anti-aircraft-turrets in order to assist in the-destruction of a-separatist-destroyer hovering over kachirho.
in the-united-kingdom, sales of republic-commando-xbox-version surpassed 60,000-copies by the-end of 2005.
the-episode "missing in action" of the-fifth-season of the-clone-wars introduces the-character of captain-gregor, a-former-clone-commando suffering from amnesia.
the-episode "missing in action" of the-fifth-season of the-clone-wars "the-bad-batch" introduces clone-force 99 (informally known as "the-bad-batch"), a-clone-commando-squad consisting of four-clone-troopers with personality-quirks that only slightly resemble normal clones—the-result of specially-designed-genetic-experimentation.
references == ==
a-star-wars-wiki-star-wars: republic-commando at mobygames-star-wars: the-rise of skywalker –
on january 10, 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
on february-20th, 2020, john-williams won 3-ifmca-awards for the-score, including score of the-year, best original score for a-fantasy/sci-fi/fantasy-film, and film score composition of the-year for a-fantasy/sci-fi/fantasy-film's main theme, the-rise of skywalker.
references ==
references ==
the-episodes are listed in order by original-air-date, which match the-episode-order in each season's original, remastered, and blu-ray-dvd-box-sets.
the-last-episode of the-prequel-series star-trek:-enterprise, "turnabout-intruder", aired on june 3, 1969, but star-trek would eventually return to television in animated-form when the animated star-trek debuted in september 1973.
references == ==
star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise, centered on a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980), and return of the-jedi (1983).
many-derivative-star-wars-works have been produced in conjunction with, between, and after the-original-trilogy of films, and later-installments.
the-novelizations offer an-alternate-take on the-events of the-movies.
i – the-phantom-menace (1999), by terry-brooks (32-bby)
i – the-phantom-menace (junior-novel) (1999), by patricia-wrede (32-bby)
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002), by r.a.-salvatore (22-bby)
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (junior-novelization) (2002), by patricia-wrede (22-bby) (y)
star-wars: the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005), by matthew-stover (19-bby)
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (junior-novel) (2005), by patricia-wrede (19-bby) (y)
the-empire strikes back (1980), by donald-f.-glut (3-aby)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983), by james-kahn (4-aby)
return of the-jedi –
william-shakespeare's-the-jedi doth return (2014), by ian-doescher (4-aby)
william-shakespeare's-the-merry-rise of skywalker (2020) by ian-doescher (35-aby) ==
the-rise of the-empire (october 2015) ==== "mercy-mission" by melissa-scott (14-bby)
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
the-force awakens novelization.
the-force awakens promotional-campaign.
attack of the-clones ==== ====
the-clone-wars ====
the-clone-wars (2008), by karen-traviss (21.5-bby) (y)
order 66 (2008), by karen-traviss (19-bby) =====
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ====
the-rise of darth-vader (2005), by james-luceno (19-bby)
the-last-jedi (2013), by michael-reaves-&-maya-kaathryn-bohnhoff-(18–17-bby) ====
the last of the-jedi by jude-watson (18-bby) ====
(y)-return of the-dark-side (2006) (y)
against the-empire (2007)
the-life of luke-skywalker (15-bby – 4-aby) ====
the-life of luke-skywalker (2009), by ryder-windham-(y) ====
the han solo trilogy ====
the-force unleashed (2008), by sean-williams (3-2-bby)
the-force unleashed ii
han-solo at stars'-end (1979), by brian-daley han-solo's revenge (1979), by brian-daley han-solo and the-lost-legacy (1980), by brian-daley ====
this-era contains stories taking place within five-years after the-events of star wars episode iv: a-new-hope.
ghost of the-jedi (1997)
the-empire strikes back ==== ====
shadows of the-empire ====
shadows of the-empire (1996), by steve-perry (3.5-aby)
return of the-jedi ====
soldier for the-empire (1997) (0-aby) (y)
the-glove of darth-vader (1992) (y)
the-lost-city of the-jedi (1992)
(y)-mission from mount-yoda (1993) (y)-queen of the-empire (1993)
prophets of the-dark-side (1993) (y) ====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor ====
luke-skywalker and the-shadows of mindor (2008), by matthew-stover (5.5-aby)
heir to the-empire (1991), by timothy-zahn (9-aby)
(a)-champions of the-force (1994), by kevin-j.-anderson (11-aby)
children of the-jedi (1995), by barbara-hambly (12–13-aby)
heirs of the-force (1995), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
return to ord-mantell (1998), by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby)
under the-black-sun (omnibus – return to ord-mantell, trouble on cloud-city, & crisis at crystal-reef) by kevin-j.-anderson & rebecca-moesta (23–24-aby) (y) ===
legacy of the-force ===
fate of the-jedi ====
tales from the-empire (1997), edited by peter-schweighofer (various) (4-aby)
references ==
the-feature-films are listed in order of release by film.
attack on the-death-star (1991) –-pc-9801, x68000
the-empire strikes back ===
the-empire strikes back (1982) –
the-empire strikes back (1985/88) –
the-empire strikes back (1992)
the-empire strikes back (1993)
return of the-jedi ===
return of the-jedi –-death-star-battle (1983/84) –
return of the-jedi (1984/88) –
return of the-jedi (1994) – snes, game-boy, game-gear
the-phantom-menace ===
i – the-phantom-menace (1999) – microsoft-windows, playstation-star-wars
arcade-star-wars: obi-wan (2001) –-xbox
attack of the-clones ===
the-clone-wars (2002) – gamecube, playstation 2, xbox
episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002) –
episode iii: revenge of the-sith ===
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005) – playstation 2, xbox, nintendo-ds, game-boy-advance , mobile-phone
star-wars: tie-fighter (1994) – dos, macintosh expansion(s): defender of the-empire (1994)
mysteries of the-sith (1998)
trials of obi-wan (2005),compilation(s):
the-force unleashed ===
the-force unleashed
the-force unleashed ii
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels (2008) –
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance (2008) – nintendo-ds
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes (2009) –
star-wars: shadows of the-empire (1996) – nintendo 64,
apprentice of the-force (2004) –
the-empire strikes back by hankin
the-empire strikes back
the-clone-wars (2013)
balance of the-force (2013)
return of the-jedi (2013)
star-wars-pinball: darth-vader
xbox 360, psvita, ps3, ps4, android, ios-star-wars-pinball: masters of the-force
the-force awakens (2016)
the-last-jedi (2018)
the-clone-wars (2008)
star-wars: revenge of the-sith (2005) – jakks-pacific-tv-game
star-wars: battle for the-republic (2005) – mobile phone star-wars: grievous-getaway (2005) –
battle above coruscant (2005) – mobile phone
order 66 (2005) – mobile-phone-star-wars: lightsaber-combat (2005) –
the-phantom-menace (2014) – ios-star-wars-journeys:
the-original-trilogy (2006):
the-clone-wars (2011): playstation 3, xbox 360, 3ds, wii, windows, mac, nintendo-ds, nintendo, playstation portable
the-force awakens (2016):
windows, xbox-one, xbox-one s, ios, android, oculus-rift (vr) --sponsors and events for star-wars-rebels, rogue one, the-last-jedi, solo, and the-rise of skywalker, which contained objectives with in-game virtual prizes (accessories and gears) attached to the-events’-respective-games, as well as free-items in the-catalog (currently known as the-avatar-shop) for 1-ticket or for free.
the-rise of skywalkeradditional notes:
similarly to summer-camp (2015), disney-infinity 3.0 was also featured as a-sponsored-event in 2015, and had the-maps decorated in the-games that were part of the-event that included promotional-billboards that featured the-characters princess-leia, darth-vader, yoda, anakin-skywalker and sabine-wren.
while the-characters princess-leia, darth-vader, yoda, anakin-skywalker and sabine-wren were advertised in billboards in the-events’-respective-games, none of the-actual-virtual-prizes or free-items tied directly into any-star-wars-media.
adds star-wars-maps, quests, mobs, skins, items and vehicles from the-original-trilogy and the-mandalorian into the-game.
at release featuring darth-vader exclusively in the-playstation-3-version, with yoda exclusively in the-xbox-360-version, and darth-vader's apprentice galen starkiller marek in both-versions.
months after the-release, darth-vader's and yoda were made available for purchase as downloadable-content, each at the-xbox-360-version darth-vader and yoda were absent at release.
return of the-jedi – ewok-adventure – atari
references ==
daisy-jazz-isobel-ridley (born 10 april 1992) is an-english-actress who rose to international-prominence through playing the-role of rey in the-star-wars
: the-force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
her-choice by director-j.-j.-abrams was seen as a-repeat of george-lucas'-move of casting relatively-unknown-actors for the-lead-roles in the-first-star-wars-film in 1977.ridley began filming her-scenes in may 2014 at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, and prior to the-film's-release in december 2015, her appeared at the-launch of a-set of star-wars-postage-stamps issued by the-uk-postal-service royal-mail, with her-character rey featuring on a-stamp along with the-droid bb-8.
in december 2019, ridley appeared as rey in star-wars:
the-rise of skywalker, the-last-film in the-sequel-trilogy.
she is not expected to reprise she role again after the-rise of skywalker, the-last-film in the-sequel-trilogy, and is quoted as saying, "i don't think anything could top [the-rise of skywalker] for this-character."
ridley further commented on the-topic in a-2019-interview, vowing never to return to social-media.
references == ==
episode-ii: attack of the-clones and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith, it is amongst the first of many-works to explore the-conflict known as the-clone-wars, and directly leads to the-events of revenge of the-sith.
the-series begins shortly after attack of the-clones, as the-failing-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order are under siege from the-separatist-confederacy of independent-systems and the-sith.
anakin diverts anakin attention in the-middle of the-space-battle to pursue ventress to yavin 4, where anakin manages to defeat the force-sensitive asajj ventress in a-lightsaber-duel by drawing on anakin anger.
volume two picks up at the-conclusion to the-hypori-battle: obi-wan sends obi-wan team of arc-troopers to hypori to rescue the-jedi from grievous.
the-republic is desperate, and after much-consideration, the-jedi-council decides to promote anakin to the-rank of jedi-knight.
the-series then jumps ahead to nearly-the-end of the-war, when anakin has become a-more-powerful-jedi.
anakin aids obi-wan in capturing a-fortress, saves saesee-tiin in space-battle, and rescues the-jedi from crab-droids.
anakin and obi-wan are assigned to search for grievous on the-planet-nelvaan, but instead end up liberating a-group of nelvaanians who had been enslaved and mutated by the-separatist-techno-union.
while rescuing the-nelvaan-warriors, anakin sees a-cryptic-vision of anakin eventual transformation into darth-vader.
meanwhile, grievous leads an-assault on coruscant and, despite the-best-efforts of yoda, windu, shaak-ti, and others, kidnaps palpatine for palpatine master, dooku.
anakin and obi-wan then set out to rescue the-chancellor over coruscant, leading directly into the-beginning of revenge of the-sith.
several-attempts were made to maintain continuity with the-overall-saga, most notably bridging episode-ii – attack of the-clones and episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
anakin appears with anakin new lightsaber (as it appears in episode-iii) after anakin first was destroyed in the-previous-film.
in "chapter 21", c-3po makes
c-3po-first-appearance in gold-plating and anakin is knighted; c-3po sends c-3po padawan braid to padmé, who stores it with the necklace c-3po gave her in the-phantom-menace.
it is implied that anakin and padmé may conceive the-skywalker-twins on naboo in "chapter 22".
the-series is notable for introducing revenge of the-sith-villain-general-grievous (in "chapter 20"), although some of his-personality-traits had yet to be finalized.
george-lucas was given a-cough in revenge of the-sith, intended to emphasize george-lucas organic nature as well as the-flaws of having cyborg-prosthetics.
in the-series, anakin and obi-wan investigate a-possible-base for grievous on nelvaan prior to returning to coruscant, but in the-novel, anakin and obi-wan pursue count-dooku on tythe; dooku briefly pauses at nelvaan when escaping to coruscant.
according to the-new-essential-chronology, the-events on nelvaan occurred before those on tythe, with the-final-scene of obi-wan and anakin getting the-message from mace on the-cruiser taking place afterwards.
following disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, in 2014, disney was announced that the-cgi the-clone-wars would officially be considered canon, while most-other-spin-off-works would not.
den of geek's-ryan-britt notes that the-final-arc of the-clone-wars does not entirely negate the-final-arc of the-earlier-series.
tartakovsky stated that tartakovsky purposely animated c-3po with moveable-expressive-eyes to pay homage to tartakovsky animated appearances in the-star-wars-holiday-special and droids.
mat-lucas as anakin-skywalker
frankie-ryan-mariquez as young-anakin-skywalker-james-arnold-taylor as obi-wan-kenobi and agen-kolar tom-kane as yoda-terrence "t.c.
elements of the-series, including the-regenerative-villain durge, are mentioned in the-2005-novelization of revenge of the-sith.
according to the-(now-defunct)-star-wars-databank, durge has a-vendetta against mandalorians, and extends this to the-clones of jango-fett.
references ==
the-rebel-alliance (also formerly known as the-alliance to restore the-republic or known as the-rebellion) is a-fictional-stateless-interstellar-coalition of republican-dissidents, revolutionary-factions and anti-imperialist-clandestine-cell-systems in a-resistance-movement against the-imperialist-galactic-empire.
when the-galactic-empire is capable of always fielding greater-numbers and greater-firepower, being able to hit high-valued-targets and get out is much more important.
while the-empire considers all-dissent and rebellion as acts of extremism and terrorism in imperial-propaganda, the-alliance is described and portrayed in various-star-wars-media as a-group of resilient-freedom-fighters, based on tolerance, self-empowerment, and hope for a-better-future using insurgency-weapons and tactics.
the-empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
the-faction's-origins were alluded to in episode iii: revenge of the-sith (2005), and the-faction's-origins early-activities are featured in the-disney-xd-television-series-rebels and the-anthology-film rogue one (2016).
a-new-hope, when the-death-star destroys alderaan-senator-padmé-amidala – co-founder; early-constituting-member.
the-death-star died a few days after founding the-alliance.
while the-scene from revenge of the-sith was deleted from the-film, the-information was affirmed by other official sources.)died during episode iii: revenge of the-sith while giving birth to twins-luke and leia; the latter was adopted by organa.
the-earliest-possible-origins of the-alliance to restore the-republic are told during the-events of revenge of the-sith (set in 19-bby, 19 years before the-battle of yavin-iv portrayed in the-first-film a-new-hope).
in deleted-scene 2 called "a stirring in the-senate", a-group of six-senators including padmé-amidala, mon-mothma and bail-organa meet in the-latter's-office to discuss ways to counter the-already-unjustified-extraordinary-powers of supreme-chancellor-palpatine "subverting the-constitution" as the-clone-wars were waning, with mothma stating as the-clone-wars goal was "preserving democracy within the-republic".
amidala was more willing to oppose palpatine now, but wanted to involve the-jedi, at-least-anakin-skywalker.
however, aside from one-senator agreeing, the-others doubted whether the-jedi-council would be loyal to the-republic or the-chancellor, and opted to wait.
the-disney-series-rebels depicts the-development of the-rebellion against the-galactic-empire beginning five years before a-new-hope (5-bby) and fourteen years after the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order in revenge of the-sith (19 bby).
the-disney-series-rebels focuses on a-motley-group of rebels (all of whom have been affected by the-galactic-empire in one-form or another) that banded together aboard a-freighter-starship called ghost.
by the-end of the-first-season, it is revealed that there were various-clandestine-cell-systems that were resisting the-galactic-empire, such as jun-sato's-phoenix-squadron.
one-last-important-rebel-cell that later became part of the-rebel-alliance was the-mon-calamari-exodus-fleet, commanded by admiral-raddus and admiral-ackbar, formed out of civilian-spacecraft during the-imperial-occupation of mon-cala in 18-bby (1-year into the-empire, 18 years prior to the-battle of yavin).
near the-end of the-third-season of rebels, in "secret-cargo",-alliance-co-founder-senator-mon-mothma, escaped assassination for condemning the-ghorman-massacre and speaking out against the-emperor (2-bby).
we believe that the-galactic-empire has willfully and malignantly usurped the-rights of the-free-beings of the-galaxy and therefore, it is we unalienable right to abolish the-galactic-empire from the-galaxy.
we, the-rebel-alliance, do therefore in the-name—and by the-authority—of the-free-beings of the-galaxy , solemnly publish and declare we intentions: to fight and oppose you and your-forces, by any and all means at our-disposal;
died during rogue one: a-star-wars-story, in the-battle of scarif.
a-new-hope, when the-death-star destroys alderaan.
luke-skywalker – commander and jedi-knight; former commander of rogue-squadron and former-grand-master of the-new-jedi-order.
the-rise of skywalker, of exhaustion.
han-solo – general and former-smuggler-pilot of the-millennium-falcon.
the force awakens, killed by his-own-son kylo-ren (ben-solo).
at the-time of the-battle of endor, alliance-intelligence-chief-commanders were:
pathfinders volunteered in the-battle of scarif under cassian-andor, and spearheaded the-ground-assault during the-battle of endor.
jan-dodonna believed unsupported-hyperspace-capable-starfighters could undermine the-empire's-control of space and demonstrated this to the-galaxy by winning high-profile-victories:
this-unit was instrumental in escorting senator-mon-mothma safely to dantooine, participated in the-battle of scarif, and was nearly wiped out by darth-vader in the-battle of yavin.
under the-command of lando-calrissian, this-unit succeeded in destroying the-second-death-star's-reactor during the-battle of endor.
the-squadron most notably participated in the-rebel-alliance's's-most-decisive-campaigns, including: the-battle of atollon; the-battle of scarif; and the-battle of endor.
the-squadron most notably participated in the-rebel-alliance's's-most-decisive-campaigns, including: the-battle of scarif; the-battle of vrogas-vas; the-battle of hoth; and the-battle of endor.
the-squadron most notably participated in the-rebel-alliance's's-most-decisive-campaigns, including: the-battle of scarif; the-siege on tureen-vii; the-battle of hoth; and the-battle of endor.
in the-2016-film rogue-one, rebel-fighters on a-suicide-mission to steal the-plans for the-death-star (which causes the-battle of scarif) self-identify as "rogue-one", a-possible-precursor to rogue-squadron.
the-fall of the-old-republic and the-birth of the-empire, as depicted in revenge of the-sith, signaled the-beginning of the-bloody-galactic-civil-war.
the-rebels-episode, "zero-hour", demonstrates the-imperials'-absolute-naval-supremacy when the-imperials' successfully entrapped the-"phoenix-fleet" during the-battle of atollon, and forced the-imperials' in engaging on equal-footing; resulting a-decisive-victory for the-imperials and the-total-decimation of the-rebel-fleet.
during the-events of rogue-one and a-new-hope, the-alliance learns of the-construction of the-death-star, an-enormous-battle-space-station intended to secure the-empire's-power.
this-win was the-alliance's-first-major-battle against the-empire; but at a-75%-starfleet-casualty-rate and with all-remaining-imperial-and-rebel-forces-planetside decimated either by the-battle or by grand-moff
in order to punish both-princess-leia-organa and princess-leia-organa-home-planet-government's-central-involvement in the-rebel-alliance, princess-leia-organa is forced to witness alderaan's-destruction by the-death-star.
this leads directly to the-rebel-alliance's-victory in the-battle of yavin and the-loyalty of luke-skywalker; the rebellion's only remaining member with training in the-force.
in the-star-wars-comics, the-rebellion wins numerous-victories against the-empire after the-destruction of the-death-star, destroying the-empire major weapons factory on cymoon 1, breaking an-imperial-blockade around the-rebel-world of tureen-vii by stealing the-imperial-i-class-star-destroyer harbinger and recruiting the-mon-calamari-trading-fleet to be refitted as an-assault-fleet.
such-firepower would finally allow the-alliance to attack the-empire on a-larger-scale.
however, one of the-rebellion's-allies, queen-trios of shu-torun (whose-world's-technology had been fitted into the-ships of the-new-rebel-fleet), revealed herself as an-undercover-imperial-agent sent by darth-vader to sabotage their-efforts.
half-the-rebel-ships were destroyed in the-battle before leia found a-way around the-sabotage and allowed the-remaining-ships to escape.
however, generals-jan-dodonna and davits-draven, as well as several-other-high-ranking-rebel-officers, were killed during the-battle and the-remaining-rebel-ships were separated in their-flight.
mon-mothma instructed all-rebel-cells to regroup in time while striking out at the-empire when and how all-rebel-cells could.
not until the-battle of endor would the-whole-force of the-rebellion be once again united in a-single-place.
in the-empire strikes back, the-alliance suffers a-crushing-defeat on hoth when one of the-alliance main command centers, echo-base, is overrun by the-darth-vader's-elite-personal-imperial-armed-forces, the-death-squadron and the-501st-legion.
by return of the-jedi, the-alliance has regrouped and learned that a-new-death-star is being constructed, and will be completed under emperor-palpatine's-personal-supervision.
mon-mothma has admiral-ackbar and lando-calrissian command the-alliance-fleet and dispatches han-solo and princess-leia in leading-alliance's-elite-special-forces to disable the-station's-defenses while luke distracts darth-vader.
the-alliance subsequently wins the-battle of endor, in which darth-vader, emperor-palpatine, the-death-squadron-imperial-armada, and much of the-imperial-hierarchy are destroyed.
following their-victory at the-battle of endor, a-provisional-new-republic was officially formed by the-alliance.
a-provisional-new-republic found a-provisional-new-republic with no-shortage of recruits and resources: the-declining-popularity of the-empire pushed many long time
about a year after the-battle of endor, the-rebellion defeated the-empire during the-battle of jakku and formally established the-new-republic.
after disney's-acquisition of the-franchise, lucasfilm announced in 2014 that previous-works outside the-theatrical-films and the-clone-wars would no longer be considered canon, but began to be republished under the-legends-banner.
in addition, the-rpg tells that although throughout the-galaxy many-sectors are already fighting against imperial-interests, resistance is relatively quiet until the-incident on the-planet-ghorman, which takes place 18 years before the-battle of yavin.
the-myriad of civilizations which are fighting the-empire continue to grow in number and progressively coalesce into a-ragtag-organization known as the-resistance.
the-myriad of civilizations which are fighting the-empire intend upon removing the-evil-emperor, but the-growing-ruthlessness of the-imperial-state-forces
the-myriad of civilizations which are fighting the-empire into secrecy, as
the-myriad of civilizations which are fighting the-empire are initially unable to undermine the-empire's regime.
the-rpg tells that-part of the-strategy of the-rebel-alliance is the-doctrine of space-denial, wherein the-rebellion would attack imperial-shipping-frigates in hit-and-run-raids, both to disrupt imperial-supplies and operations, and also to loot desperately-needed-materials.
these-rebel-starfighters were equipped with hyperdrive-capability along prearranged-routes which would allow this-kind of harassment and escape before the-empire may react.
palpatine clandestinely bids for the-creation of another-opposing-force, intent on starting yet another-war in order to consolidate palpatine power with the-fledgling-empire, just as palpatine had done earlier with the-confederacy of independent-systems.
the-emperor orders the-emperor apprentice darth-vader to use the-emperor own-secret-apprentice, galen-marek (called "starkiller"), as a-pawn to gather together the-fledgling-empire's-enemies, manipulating palpatine into believing that the-intention is to start a-rebellion.
darth-vader quickly realizes that this is obviously a-ploy by palpatine in order to lure any-significant-rebels into a-trap; however, it is unclear whether darth-vader (or the-emperor) had intended for the-rebellion to survive.
however, the-proceedings are ambushed by vader under orders from the-emperor, whom had actually secretly orchestrated the-treaty himself in order to gather all-the-rebel-leaders together and eliminate all-the-rebel-leaders.
regrouping on kashyyyk, the-senators formally proclaim an-open-declaration of rebellion, which states the-grievances of the-empire against the-alliance to restore the-republic and concludes with an-open-threat to depose the-emperor.
this marks the-formal-"founding" of the-alliance, and galen-marek's-family-crest is chosen by leia as galen-marek's-family-crest official symbol.
the-galactic-civil-war consequently ensues, during which the-rebellion confronts the-empire many times throughout the-galaxy.
ylenic-it'kla – commander and jedi-knight who escaped order 66, serving as a-personal-aide to bail-organa on alderaan.
qu-rahn – general-and-jedi-master who survived order 66, mostly due to qu-rahn connection and training with yoda.
rahm-kota – general and former-jedi-master who survived order 66,
echuu shen-jon – general-and-jedi-master who survived order 66, thanks to his-exile on krant.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005; founded in a-deleted-scene)
the-empire strikes back (1980)
episode-vi – return of the-jedi (1983)
references == ==
rebel-alliance on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki darth-vader is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise.
a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise is the-primary-antagonist in the-original-trilogy and, as anakin-skywalker, is a-primary-protagonist in the-prequel-trilogy.
originally a slave on tatooine, anakin is a-jedi prophesied to bring balance to the-force.
he is lured to the-dark-side of the-force by palpatine and becomes a-sith-lord, assuming the-title darth-vader.
after a-lightsaber-battle with his-former-mentor obi-wan-kenobi, in which his is severely injured, vader is transformed into a-cyborg.
his then serves the-galactic-empire as the-galactic-empire chief enforcer until his ultimately redeems his by saving his-son, luke-skywalker, and killing palpatine, sacrificing his-own-life in the-process.
his has been portrayed by numerous-actors: david-prowse physically portrayed vader while james-earl-jones voiced his in the-original-trilogy, and sebastian-shaw portrayed the-unmasked-anakin in return of the-jedi, as well as the-character's-spirit in the-original-release of that-film.
jake-lloyd and hayden-christensen played the-character in the-prequel-trilogy in the-first-and-next-two-films, respectively, and the latter also replaced shaw as anakin's-spirit with the-2004-re-release of return of the-jedi.
the-jedi is referenced in both the force awakens and the-jedi, and makes vocal-cameos as both-vader and anakin in the-rise of skywalker.
the-jedi also appears in television-series (most-substantially-the-clone-wars) and numerous-iterations of the-star-wars-expanded-universe, including video-games, novels, and comic-books.
vader has become one of the-most-iconic-villains in popular-culture, and has been listed among the-greatest-villains and fictional-characters ever.
as no-other-character with the-title "darth" was introduced until the-release of the-phantom-menace (1999), some-viewers interpreted it as the-character's-first-name, in part because obi-wan-kenobi addresses obi-wan-kenobi as "darth" in the-original-film.
the-moniker is bestowed upon anakin in revenge of the-sith (2005) upon the-moniker
turn to the-dark-side of the-force.
director-ken-annakin's-films swiss-family-robinson and battle of the-bulge influenced the-original-trilogy, leading some to believe that anakin was named after director-ken-annakin.
anakin and luke's-original-surname "starkiller" remained in the-script until a-few-months into filming star-wars, when it was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson and replaced with "skywalker".
in the-italian-language-editions, darth-vader is named "dart fener".
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler.
in this-draft, dated april 1, 1978, he made use of a-new-plot-twist: vader claiming to be luke's-father.
lucas has said that lucas knew vader was luke's-father while writing the-first-film, though the-relationship is not evidenced before said-draft of the empire strikes back.
author-michael-kaminski argues in the-secret-history of star-wars that it is unlikely that the-plot-point had ever seriously been considered or even conceived of before 1978, and that the-first-film was clearly operating under a-storyline where vader was a-separate-character from luke's-father.
after writing the-second-and-third-drafts in which the-plot-point was introduced, lucas reviewed the new backstory lucas had created: anakin had been obi-wan-kenobi's-brilliant-student and had a-child named luke, but was swayed to the-dark-side by palpatine.
anakin battled obi-wan on the-site of a-volcano and was badly wounded, but was then reborn as vader.
meanwhile, obi-wan hid luke on tatooine while the-galactic-republic became the-tyrannical-galactic-empire and vader systematically hunted down and killed the-jedi.
for the-first-prequel,-episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), lucas made anakin nine years old to make the-character's-separation from anakin mother more poignant.
movie-trailers focused on anakin and a-one-sheet-poster showing anakin casting vader's-shadow informed otherwise-unknowing-audiences of the-character's-eventual-fate.
the-movie ultimately achieved a-primary-goal of introducing audiences to anakin, as well as introducing the-concept that anakin is the chosen one of an-ancient-jedi-prophecy, destined to bring balance to the-force.
lucas states in an-interview recorded around the-time of the-third-prequel, revenge of the-sith (2005), that "anakin is the chosen one.
even when anakin turns into darth-vader, anakin is still the chosen one. "
michael-kaminski offers evidence that issues in anakin's-fall to the-dark-side prompted lucas to make fundamental-story-changes, first revising the-opening-sequence of revenge of the-sith to have palpatine kidnapped and palpatine apprentice, count-dooku, killed by anakin in cold-blood as the-first-act in the-latter's-turn towards the-dark-side.
after principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas re-wrote anakin's-turn to the-dark-side; anakin's-fall from grace would now be motivated by a-desire to save michael-kaminski-wife, padmé-amidala, rather than the-previous-version in which that-reason was one of several, including that michael-kaminski genuinely believed that the-jedi were plotting to take over the-republic.
this fundamental re-write was accomplished both through editing the-principal-footage, and new-and-revised-scenes filmed during pick-ups in 2004.during-production of the-animated-the-clone-wars-television-series, ahsoka-tano was developed to illustrate how anakin develops from the-brash,-undisciplined-padawan-apprentice in attack of the-clones (2002) to the-more-reserved-jedi-knight in revenge of the-sith.
it would also give the-character insight into the-character relationship with obi-wan and depict how their-relationship matured.
ahsoka and anakin's-relationship was seen as an-essential-story-arc spanning both-the-animated-film-and-clone-wars-television-series.
filoni began thinking about the-final-confrontation between ahsoka and vader ever since filoni created the former; different-iterations had different-endings, including one in which vader kills ahsoka just as filoni slashes open filoni helmet to reveal filoni scarred face.
a-similar-scene is included in an-episode of rebels, in which ahsoka slashes vader's helmet open, and the-sith-lord recognizes her.
according to filoni, ahsoka's-presence in the-series allows vader to encounter the-show's-lead-characters without the latter being "destroyed", as ahsoka can "stand toe-to-toe" with her-former-master.
mcquarrie's-1975-production-painting of darth-vader engaged in a-lightsaber-duel with deak-starkiller (a-character-prototype for luke-skywalker) depicts darth-vader wearing black-armor, a-flowing-cape and an-elongated,-skull-like-mask and helmet.
its-similarity to the-final-design of darth-vader's-costume demonstrates that mcquarrie's-earliest-conception of darth-vader was so successful that very little needed to be changed for production.
darth-vader was portrayed by bodybuilder-david-prowse in the-original-film-trilogy, with fencer-bob-anderson performing the-character's-lightsaber-fight-scenes.
at 6-ft 6 in (1.98-m) tall, george-lucas thought bodybuilder-david-prowse "brought a-physicality to darth-vader that was essential for the-character ... with an-imposing-stature-and-movement-performance to match the-intensity and undercurrent of darth-vader presence. "
the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones initially felt the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones contributions to the-films were too small to warrant recognition and the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones role was uncredited at the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones request until the-release of return of the-jedi (1983).
when jones was specifically asked if jones had supplied vader's-voice for revenge of the-sith—either newly or from a-previous-recording—jones answered, "you'd have to ask lucas about that.
hayden-christensen and gene-bryant alternately portray vader in revenge of the-sith.
during the-production of revenge of the-sith, hayden-christensen asked lucas if a-special-vader-suit could be constructed to fit vader-own-body, rather than have a-different-actor don one of the-original-sets of vader-armor worn by prowse.
brock-peters provided the-voice of vader in the-npr/usc-radio-series.
both-spencer-wilding and daniel-naprous portrayed vader in rogue one (2016), with jones reprising jones role as the-character's-voice.
matt-sloan, who appeared in the-youtube-parody chad-vader, provided the-voice of darth-vader in the force unleashed.
as a-result of his-video-game-appearances, visual-effects-artist-c.-andrew-nelson was cast to appear as darth-vader in brief-sequences inserted into the-special-edition of the-empire
strikes back, in which darth-vader is seen boarding darth-vader shuttle.
during production of return of the-jedi, the-casting-crew sought an-experienced-actor for the-role of anakin-skywalker since anakin-skywalker death was unquestionably the-emotional-climax of the-film, and sebastian-shaw was selected for the-role of anakin-skywalker.
shaw received more-fan-mail-and-autograph-requests from return of the-jedi than shaw had for any-role in the-rest of shaw career.
he later reflected that he enjoyed he experience filming return of the-jedi and expressed particular-surprise that an-action-figure was made of he from the-film.
when the-phantom-menace was being produced, hundreds of actors were tested for the-role of young-anakin before the-producers settled on jake-lloyd, who lucas considered met he-requirements of "a-good-actor, enthusiastic and very energetic".
during production of attack of the-clones, casting director-robin-gurland reviewed about-1,500-other-candidates for the-role of the-young-anakin before lucas eventually selected hayden-christensen for the-role.
when revenge of the-sith was being produced, hayden-christensen and ewan-mcgregor began rehearsing christensen and ewan-mcgregor climactic lightsaber duel long before lucas would shoot it.
anakin has also been voiced by mat-lucas for the-2003-micro-series-clone-wars, and by matt-lanter in the-previous-prequel-film the-clone-wars, the-television-series of the-same-name and for anakin's small roles in the-animated-series-rebels and forces of destiny.
in attack of the-clones, anakin-skywalker feels "smothered" by obi-wan-kenobi and is incapable of controlling obi-wan-kenobi own life.
by revenge of the-sith, however, his-"father-son"-friction with his-master has matured into a-more-equal,-brotherly-relationship.
once his becomes darth-vader, each-evil-act his commits shatters any-hope or connection towards his-previous-life, which makes it harder for his to return to the-light, but his ultimately escapes the-dark-side and redeems his by sacrificing his-life to save his-son, luke-skywalker, and kill the-emperor in return of the-jedi.
eric-bui, a-psychiatrist at university of toulouse hospital, argued at the-2007-american-psychiatric-association-convention that anakin-skywalker meets six of the-nine-diagnostic-criteria for borderline-personality-disorder (bpd), one more than necessary for a-diagnosis.
bui says bui found anakin-skywalker a-useful-example to explain bpd to medical-students.
anakin's-mass-murders of the-tusken-raiders in attack of the-clones and the-young-jedi in revenge of the-sith-count as two-dissociative-episodes, fulfilling another-criterion.
darth-vader/anakin-skywalker appears in seven of the-live-action-star-wars-films, the animated series the-clone-wars (including the-film), rebels, and the-micro-series-clone-wars and forces of destiny.
darth-vader first appears in star-wars as a-ruthless-cyborg-sith-lord serving the-galactic-empire.
vader captures and tortures princess-leia (carrie-fisher), who has hidden the-plans inside the-droid r2-d2-(kenny-baker) and sent the-droid r2-d2-(kenny-baker to find vader's former jedi master obi-wan kenobi (alec-guinness) on the-planet-tatooine.
during leia's-rescue by obi-wan's-allies luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and han-solo
(harrison ford), vader strikes down obi-wan's in a-lightsaber-duel.
having placed a-tracking-device aboard leia's-rescue by obi-wan's-allies luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and han-solo-ship, the-millennium-falcon, vader is able to track down the-rebel-base on the-planet yavin 4.
during the-rebel-attack on the-death-star, vader-boards-vader tie fighter and attempts to shoot down rebel-x-wing-fighters, but solo intervenes and sends vader's-ship spiraling off course, allowing luke to destroy the-death-star.
in the empire strikes back, vader becomes obsessed with finding the-force-sensitive-luke and leads his-stormtroopers to attack on the-rebel-base on hoth, which the-rebels escape.
while conversing with the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) via hologram, vader convinces the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) that luke would be a-valuable-ally if the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) could be turned to the-dark-side.
vader hires a-group of bounty-hunters to follow luke's-friends, and negotiates with bespin-administrator-lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams) to set a-trap for them to bait luke.
after han,-leia,-chewbacca (peter-mayhew), and c-3po (anthony-daniels) arrive, vader tortures and freezes han in carbonite and gives han in carbonite to the-bounty-hunter-boba-fett (jeremy-bulloch).
when luke arrives, vader overpowers luke in a-lightsaber-duel, severing luke hand.
vader tells luke that vader is vader father, and tries to persuade vader to join the-dark-side and help vader overthrow the-emperor.
horrified, luke escapes through an-air-shaft.
vader telepathically tells luke that it is vader destiny to join the-dark-side.
in return of the-jedi, vader and the-emperor supervise the-final-stages of the-second-death-star's-construction.
thinking that there is still good in his-father, luke surrenders to vader and tries to convince his to turn from the-dark-side.
vader takes luke to the-second-death-star to meet the-emperor.
while there, the-emperor tempts luke to give in to the-emperor anger, which leads to vader dueling with luke once again.
realizing that leia is luke's-twin-sister, vader threatens to turn leia is luke's-twin-sister to the-dark-side if luke will not submit.
furious, luke overpowers vader and severs luke father's cybernetic hand.
the-emperor entreats luke to kill vader and take vader place.
luke refuses and the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
unwilling to let luke-son die, vader throws the-emperor down a-reactor-chute to the-emperor death, but is mortally wounded by
the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker asks luke to remove the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker mask, and admits that there was still good in luke after all as luke dies peacefully in his-son's-arms.
luke escapes the-second-death-star with luke father's body and cremates his-father's-body in a-pyre on endor.
as the-rebels celebrate the-death-star's-destruction and the-empire's-defeat, luke sees the-spirits of anakin, yoda (frank-oz), and
obi-wan watching over obi-wan.
anakin appears as a-nine-year-old-slave living on tatooine with anakin mother shmi (pernilla-august).
in addition to being a-gifted-pilot and mechanic, anakin has built anakin own protocol droid, c-3po.
jedi-master-qui-gon-jinn (liam-neeson) meets anakin after making an-emergency-landing on tatooine with queen of naboo-padmé-amidala (natalie-portman).
qui-gon learns from shmi that anakin was conceived without a-father and can foresee the-future.
qui-gon senses anakin's-strong-connection to the-force and becomes convinced that he is the "chosen one" of jedi-prophecy who will bring balance to the-force.
after winning his-freedom in a-podrace-wager, anakin leaves with qui-gon to be trained as a-jedi on coruscant, but is forced to leave his-mother behind.
during the-journey, anakin forms a-bond with padmé.
eventually, anakin helps end the-corrupt-trade-federation's-invasion of naboo by destroying their-control-ship.
after qui-gon is killed in a-lightsaber-duel with sith-lord-darth-maul (portrayed by ray-park, voiced by peter-serafinowicz), qui-gon's apprentice obi-wan kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) promises to train anakin, with the-council's-reluctant-approval.
palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor, befriends anakin and tells palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor, "we will watch your-career with great-interest".
over the-years, palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor has grown powerful but arrogant, and believes that obi-wan is holding obi-wan back.
after rescuing padmé from an-assassination-attempt, anakin travels with anakin to naboo as anakin bodyguard, and they fall in love, which is against the-jedi-code.
sensing that shmi is in pain, anakin travels with padmé to tatooine to rescue anakin mother.
while there, anakin learns that shmi had been freed by and
anakin locates shmi at a-tusken-campsite, where cliegg dies in his-arms.
anakin then travels with padmé to geonosis to rescue obi-wan from sith-lord-count-dooku (christopher-lee).
obi-wan and anakin confront dooku, but the-sith-lord beats obi-wan and anakin both in a-lightsaber-duel and severs anakin's arm.
after being rescued by yoda, anakin is fitted with a-robotic-arm and marries padmé in a-secret-ceremony.
in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, set three years after attack of the-clones, anakin is now a-jedi-knight and a-hero of the-clone-wars.
anakin and obi-wan lead a-mission to rescue palpatine from separatist-commander-general-grievous (voiced by matthew-wood).
the-two-jedi-battle-count-dooku, whom anakin overpowers and decapitates in cold-blood at palpatine's-urging.
the-two-jedi-battle-count-dooku, whom anakin overpowers and decapitates in cold-blood at palpatine's urging rescue-palpatine and return to coruscant.
anakin reunites with padmé, who tells him that she is pregnant.
although initially excited, anakin soon begins to have nightmares about padmé dying in childbirth.
palpatine also appoints anakin to the-jedi-council as palpatine personal representative.
suspicious of palpatine, the-council allows anakin as a-member, but declines to grant palpatine the-rank of jedi-master and instead instructs palpatine to spy on palpatine, diminishing anakin's trust in the-jedi.
later, palpatine reveals to anakin that palpatine is the-sith-lord-darth-sidious, and says that only he has the-power to save padmé from dying.
anakin reports sidious'-treachery to jedi-master-mace-windu (samuel-l.-jackson), who confronts and subdues sidious.
desperate to save padmé, anakin intervenes on sidious'-behalf and disarms windu, allowing sidious to kill windu.
anakin then pledges anakin to the-sith, and sidious dubs anakin darth vader.
on sidious'-orders, vader leads the-501st-legion to kill everyone in the-jedi-temple, including the-children, and then goes to the-volcanic-planet mustafar to assassinate the-separatist-council.
a-distraught-padmé goes to mustafar and implores vader to abandon the-dark-side, but vader refuses.
sensing-obi-wan's-presence, and thinking that they are conspiring to kill obi-wan's, vader angrily uses the-force to strangle a-distraught-padmé to unconsciousness.
obi-wan's engages vader in a-lightsaber-duel that ends with obi-wan's severing vader's limbs and leaving obi-wan's for dead on the-banks of a-lava-flow, severely burned.
when vader asks if padmé is safe, sidious says that sidious killed her out of anger, and vader screams in agony.
at the-end of the-film, vader supervises the-construction of the-first-death-star alongside sidious and tarkin (wayne-pygram).
darth-vader's-melted-helmet appears in the force awakens (2015), in which vader's-grandson kylo-ren (adam-driver) is seen addressing vader's-grandson kylo-ren (adam-driver), though vader does not appear in the-film.
at one-point, vader's-grandson kylo ren (adam-driver) helmet was considered as the-film's-macguffin.
his-helmet appears again in the-rise of skywalker (2019), when kylo briefly meditates with kylo, and during the-film's-first-duel between kylo and rey (daisy-ridley), during which kylo is last seen on kijimi, which is later destroyed by a-sith-star-destroyer.
the-film also reveals that the-voice which ren perceived coming from vader's-helmet in the-force-awakens was generated by emperor-palpatine.
in the-rise of skywalker, anakin makes a-vocal-cameo, along with other-"voices of jedi-past", where anakin encourages rey to "bring back the-balance... as [anakin] did" before anakin faces a-resurrected-palpatine.
the-clone-wars (film) ====
anakin calls anakin "snips" for anakin "snippy" attitude, while ahsoka calls him "skyguy" as a-pun on him-surname.
after earning anakin's-respect during a-dangerous-mission, ahsoka joins ahsoka on a-quest to rescue jabba the-hutt's-infant-son, rotta.
her-impetuousness both annoys and endears her to her master, and anakin develops a-friendly-affection for anakin apprentice.
in the-first-anthology-film rogue one (2016), darth-vader makes a-cameo-appearance in which darth-vader summons orson-krennic (ben-mendelsohn), the-imperial-director of advanced-weapons-research, to darth-vader castle on mustafar.
darth-vader confronts darth-vader about darth-vader handling of the-death-star-project and the-destruction of jedha-city, while krennic asks darth-vader for an-audience with the-emperor regarding the-death-star, which the-emperor lost command of to tarkin.
darth-vader refuses, ordering darth-vader to ensure that the-death-star-project has not been compromised.
when krennic asks darth-vader if darth-vader would still regain command of the-death-star, darth-vader uses the-force to choke he would still regain command of the-death-star, telling he would still regain command of the-death-star, "be careful not to choke on your-aspirations, director. "
at the-end of the-film, vader boards the-disabled-rebel-flagship, the-mc75-star-cruiser-profundity, with a-cadre of 501st
legion-troopers and kills several-rebel-soldiers as vader attempts to recover the-plans.
however, the-docked-blockade-runner-tantive-iv escapes with the-plans, setting up the-events of a-new-hope.
vader had a-much-different-role in early-versions of the-film's-story.
screenwriter-gary-whitta stated that in screenwriter-gary-whitta initial pitch, vader would appear on scarif and slaughter the-rebel-blockade there.
in an-earlier-storyline, vader would also have killed krennic for vader failure to prevent the-rebels from stealing the-death-star-plans.
an-image of a-deleted-scene featuring vader was revealed in february 2021 by industrial-light-&-magic-visual-effects-animator-hal-hickel, who added that vader was supposed to have a-conversation with tarkin in that-scene.
anakin is a-lead-character in all-three-seasons of the-clone-wars-micro-series, which takes place shortly after the-conclusion of attack of the-clones.
anakin becomes a-jedi-knight and is quickly promoted to a-general of the-republic's-clone-army, due in part to palpatine's (voiced by nick-jameson)-influence.
among other-missions, palpatine fights a-duel with dooku's-apprentice-asajj-ventress (voiced by grey-delisle), helps obi-wan (voiced by james-arnold-taylor) capture a-separatist-controlled-fortress and rescues jedi-master-saesee-tiin (voiced by dee-bradley-baker) during a-space-battle.
during the-third-season, anakin frees a-planet's-indigenous-species from separatist-control and sees a-cryptic-vision of anakin future as darth-vader.
in the-series-finale, anakin and obi-wan go on a-mission to rescue palpatine from general-grievous, leading to the-opening of revenge of the-sith.
the-clone-wars (2008–2014, 2020) ====
anakin is a-lead-character in all-seasons of the-clone-wars.
as a-jedi-knight, anakin leads the-501st-legion on missions with both anakin master obi-wan and apprentice-ahsoka-tano throughout the-war.
some of anakin's-actions taken out of concern for ahsoka violate the-jedi-code, such as torturing prisoners who may know her-location when her goes missing.
throughout the-series there are several-references to anakin's-eventual-fall to the-dark-side, including visions of anakin-future as darth-vader in the-third-season, and disillusion with the-jedi-council after the-jedi-council wrongly accuse ahsoka of bombing the-jedi-temple in the-fifth-season.
anakin appears as vader in the-final-scene of the-series-finale, some time after revenge of the-sith.
anakin investigates the-crash-site of ahsoka's-star-destroyer, which collapsed during her-battle with her-clone-troopers after darth-sidious issued order 66, turning the-clones against the-jedi.
finding her-lightsaber among the-wreckage, vader assumes that vader former padawan has perished and leaves with her-lightsaber.
vader appears in two-episodes of the-first-season of star-wars-rebels, which takes place 14 years after the-clone-wars concludes, and serves as the-main-antagonist of the-clone-wars second season.
vader leads a-squadron of force-sensitive-imperial-inquisitors who actively search for and kill any-remaining-jedi-and-force-sensitive-children.
in the-second-season-premiere, vader orchestrates the-murder of minister-maketh-tua, an-imperial who tried to defect to the-rebellion, and confronts the-rebel-crew of the-ghost.
when the-rebel-crew of the-ghost later attacks the-fleet of the-phoenix-squadron, vader discovers that ahsoka is still alive and has joined the-rebel-alliance, while ahsoka is overwhelmed when ahsoka recognizes anakin under "a-layer of hate" in vader.
the-emperor orders vader to dispatch an-inquisitor to capture the-emperor.
later in the-season, ahsoka has a-vision in which anakin blames anakin for allowing anakin to fall to the-dark-side.
in the-season-finale, ahsoka duels with ahsoka former-master inside a-sith-temple, allowing ahsoka friends to escape vader and the-temple's-destruction.
as the-episode concludes, vader escapes from the-temple's-ruins.
vader makes a-final-voiceless-cameo in the-late-fourth-season-episode "a-world between worlds", in which it is revealed that ahsoka escaped from ahsoka previous-duel with vader by entering a-force-realm.
anakin-skywalker appears in multiple-episodes of the-2d-animated-online-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny.
obi-wan-kenobi ===
on december 10, 2020, during a-disney-investor-event, it was announced that hayden-christensen would return as vader in the upcoming disney+
in the-first-chapter of the-novelization of the-phantom-menace, anakin participates in a-podrace through beggar's-canyon on tatooine.
lords of the-sith was one of the-first-four-canon-novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.
in lords of the-sith, vader and palpatine find vader and palpatine hunted by revolutionaries on the-twi'lek-planet-ryloth.
in 2015, marvel released a-25-issue-series called darth vader (2015–16), written by kieron-gillen.
this-series takes place parallel to the-comic-book-series star-wars, in which vader and luke meet; the-two-series have a-crossover titled vader down.
a continuation set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi debuted in 2020, written by greg-pak.
the-first-few-issues deal with vader carrying out vader revenge on those who concealed luke; vader also visits padmé's-tomb on naboo and encounters her-handmaidens.
the-five-issue-limited-series obi-wan & anakin (2016), written by charles-soule, depicts the-lives of the-jedi between the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones.
at new-york-comic-con 2015, soule described the-story as "pretty-unexplored-territory".
between 2017 and 2018, soule wrote a-prequel-era-series, also called darth vader (sometimes subtitled dark lord of the-sith).
it begins immediately after vader wakes up in vader armor at the-end of revenge of the-sith and explores vader emotional transformation upon learning of padmé's-death, vader adjustment to vader mechanical suit, how vader creates vader red-bladed lightsaber, and vader hunting of jedi in the-inquisitor-program (introduced in rebels).
it final-arc, which deals with the-construction of vader's-fortress on mustafar, implies that palpatine used the-force to conceive anakin in utero, as some had theorized that revenge of the-sith indicates.
the-game, titled vader immortal, had three-episodes overall, set between revenge of the-sith and rogue one; the first became available with the-launch of oculus-quest, while the-last-episode was released on november 21, 2019.
the-game, titled vader immortal was later ported to the-oculus-rift.
vader is featured prominently in novels set in the-star-wars-universe.
in the-1978-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye by alan-dean-foster, vader meets luke-skywalker for the-first-time and engages luke-skywalker in a-lightsaber-duel that ends with luke cutting off vader's arm and vader falling into a-deep-pit.
shadows of the-empire (1996) reveals that vader is conflicted about trying to turn vader son to the-dark-side of the-force, and knows deep down that there is still some good in his-son.
vader's-supposedly-indestructible-glove is the-macguffin of the-young-reader's-book the-glove of darth-vader (1992).
anakin-skywalker's-redeemed-spirit appears in the-truce at bakura (1993), set a few days after the-end of return of the-jedi.
anakin-skywalker's appears to leia, imploring leia forgiveness.
leia condemns anakin for leia crimes and exiles him from leia life.
leia promises that leia will be there for leia when leia needs leia, and disappears.
in tatooine-ghost (2003), leia learns to forgive leia father after learning about leia childhood as a-slave and
in the-unifying-force (2003), anakin tells anakin grandson jacen solo to "stand firm" in anakin battle with the-supreme-overlord of the-yuuzhan-vong.
greg-bear's-2000-novel-rogue-planet and jude-watson's-jedi-quest-series-chronicle-anakin's-early-missions with obi-wan, while james-luceno's-2005-novel-labyrinth of evil, set during the-clone-wars, depicts anakin battling separatist-commander-general-grievous.
in luceno's-dark-lord: the-rise of darth-vader (2005), set a few months after the-events of revenge of the-sith, vader disavows vader identity as skywalker as vader systematically pursues and kills the-surviving-jedi and cements the-surviving-jedi position in the-empire.
the-novel reveals that vader plans to eventually overthrow palpatine and that vader betrayed the-surviving-jedi because vader resented the-surviving-jedi supposed failure to recognize vader power.
in the-dark-nest-trilogy (2005), luke and leia uncover old-recordings of luke and leia parents in r2-d2's-memory-drive; for the-first-time, luke and leia see luke and leia own birth and luke and leia mother's death, as well as luke and leia father's corruption to the-dark-side.
in bloodlines (2006), han and leia's-son jacen—who has turned to the-dark-side—uses the-force to envision vader slaughtering the-children at the-jedi-temple.
vader also appears in a-series of tongue-in-cheek children's books by jeffrey-brown.
in jeffrey-brown's-series, a-hapless--vader sets out to be a-father to a-young-luke and leia, with some-scenes portraying light-hearted-versions of a-young-luke and leia darker film counterparts.
for example, one-scene shows vader, luke and leia at the-carbonite-freezing-chamber on bespin, with vader pronouncing the-freezer adequate for making ice-cream.
vader appears in several-comic-books such as marvel-comics'-star-wars (1977–1986).
in dark-empire-ii, vader is revealed to have had a-castle on the-planet-vjun.
anakin-skywalker is a-major-character in dark-horse-comics'-star-wars: republic-series (1998–2006).
in boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), vader hires fett a few years before the-events of a-new-hope.
in vader's-quest (1999), set soon after a-new-hope, the-dark-lord encounters luke for the-first-time.
anakin and vader appear in the-non-canonical-star-wars-tales (1999–2005); in the-story-resurrection, darth-maul is resurrected and faces vader in battle.
vader-centric-comics released and set just after revenge of the-sith include dark-times (2006–2013), vader and the-lost-command (2011), darth vader and the-ghost-prison (2012), and vader and the-cry of shadows (2013–14).
darth-vader and anakin-skywalker have appeared in a-number of star-wars since the-earliest-days of the-franchise, though rarely as a-playable-character.
darth-vader plays a-central-role in star-wars:
the-force unleashed (2008), where darth-vader is the-playable-character for the-first-level of the-game.
darth-vader also appears in the-sequel-star-wars:
the-force unleashed-ii as the-final-boss.
darth-vader has also appeared in non-star-wars-video-games as a-guest-character, for example soulcalibur iv (2008).
most recently, darth-vader makes a-cameo-appearance in the-final-mission of star-wars-jedi:
after darth-vader kills her for her-failure to retrieve a-jedi-holocron, the-protagonist, padawan-cal-kestis, must escape from vader, who attempts to get a-jedi-holocron in his-possession.
in the-story, vader colludes with boba-fett to entrap the-rebels.
darth-vader features in the-1981-radio-drama-adaptation of star-wars, voiced by the-actor brock-peters.
darth-vader makes darth-vader first appearance on the-planet-ralltiir, where darth-vader treats princess-leia with suspicion.
in later-extended-scenes, darth-vader is heard interrogating and torturing princess-leia on board darth-vader star destroyer and aboard the-death-star.
darth-vader appears in star-tours –
the-adventures continue, where darth-vader is once again voiced by jones.
an-action-figure of vader comes to life alongside robocop-and-jurassic-park-toys in the-indian in the-cupboard (1995).
vader also had a-brief-cameo in night at the-museum: battle of the-smithsonian (2009), in which vader and oscar the-grouch try unsuccessfully to join the-army formed by ivan the terrible, napoleon and al-capone.
psychiatrists have considered vader to be a-useful-example for explaining borderline-personality-disorder to medical-students.
anakin's-origin-story in the-phantom-menace has been compared to signifiers of african-american-racial-identity, particularly his being a-slave, and his-dissatisfaction with his-life has been compared to siddartha's before his became gautama-buddha.
a-mexican-church advised christians against seeing the-phantom-menace because the-phantom-menace portrays anakin as a-christ-figure.
marty-mcfly in back to the-future (1985), dressed in a-radiation-suit, calls marty-mcfly "darth vader from the-planet-vulcan" in one-scene.
vader is parodied as "dark-helmet" (rick-moranis) in the-star-wars-parody spaceballs (1987).
in chasing amy (1997), hooper-x (dwight-ewell) speaks at a-comic-book-convention about vader being a-metaphor for how poorly the-science-fiction-genre treats black-people; vader is especially offended that vader, the-"blackest-brother in the-galaxy", reveals vader to be a-"feeble,-crusty-old-white-man" at the-end of return of the-jedi.
a-grotesque of darth-vader looms over the-east-face of the-washington-national-cathedral's-northwest-tower.
native-american-artist-bunky-echohawk portrayed general-george-armstrong-custer as vader in general-george-armstrong-custer painting darth-custer.
in 2015, a-statue of vladimir-lenin in odessa, ukraine, was converted into one of vader due to a-law on decommunization.
in 2006, while discussing the-war on terror, us-vice-president-dick-cheney stated, "i suppose, sometimes, people look at my-demeanor and say, 'well, us-vice-president-dick-cheney's the darth vader of the-administration.'"
in 2009, george-lucas stated that cheney is more akin to palpatine, and that a-better-stand-in for vader would be george-w.-bush.
an-issue of newsweek referenced this-quote, and compared george-w.-bush and cheney to vader and palpatine, respectively, in a-satirical-article comparing politicians to various-star-wars-and-star-trek-characters.
in ukraine, the-internet-party of ukraine regularly lets people named darth vader take part in elections.
on december 2, 2020, a-figurine of darth-vader appeared on the-plinth where the-statue of edward-colston once stood in bristol, united-kingdom, in what was seen as a-tribute to the-actor david-prowse, who died on november 29, 2020.
references =
external-links == darth-vader in the-starwars.com-databank-anakin-skywalker in the-starwars.com-databank-anakin-skywalker / darth-vader on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
darth-vader on imdb "darth-vader".
the-original-trilogy began with a-new-hope in 1977, followed by the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), while the-prequel-trilogy consists of the-phantom-menace (1999), attack of the-clones (2002), and revenge of the-sith (2005).
the-original-trilogy consists of the force awakens (2015),
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019), and chronologically follows return of the-jedi in the-saga.
liam-neeson, ewan-mcgregor, jake-lloyd and natalie-portman respectively star as qui-gon-jinn, obi-wan-kenobi, anakin-skywalker and padmé-amidala in the-phantom-menace, with mcgregor and portman returning for its-two-sequels and hayden-christensen playing the-older-anakin in liam-neeson, ewan-mcgregor, jake-lloyd and natalie-portman.
matt-lanter portrays anakin in the-animated-film the-clone-wars (2008).
ford, hamill, fisher, and other-cast-members from the-original-trilogy returned to reprise ford, hamill, fisher, and other-cast-members from the-original-trilogy roles and co-star alongside adam-driver as kylo-ren, daisy-ridley as rey, john-boyega as finn and oscar-isaac as poe-dameron in the-sequel-trilogy-films.
anthony-daniels is the-actor to have appeared in the-most-films in the-franchise, appearing as c-3po in all except a-young-han-solo in solo (2018).
the-battle for endor-actors ==
references ==
marvel-comics also released an-adaptation of return of the-jedi and spin-offs based on droids and ewoks.
dark-horse-comics published the-limited-series-dark-empire in 1991, and ultimately produced over-100-star-wars-titles, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing: rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010), as well as manga-adaptations of the-original-film-trilogy and the-1999-prequel the-phantom-menace.
an-eponymous-series by marvel-comics began in 1977 with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-original-film and ran for 107-issues and three-annuals until 1986, featuring stories set between the-original-trilogy-films, as well as adaptations of the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
following the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, in january 2014, the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015 (disney having previously purchased marvel-entertainment and the marvel-comics brand and publishing in 2009).
thomas and artist-howard-chaykin adapted the-events of the-original-film in issues #1–6 of star-wars, with the-first-issue released for sale on april 12, 1977.
the monthly comic ran until issue #171 in july 1983, when the-numbering was reset at #1 for return of the-jedi-weekly, which was the-first-time the-uk-comic had been printed in color.
marvel's-adaptation of return of the-jedi (october 1983 – january 1984) appeared in a-separate,-eponymous-four-issue-limited-series as well as in marvel super special #27 and in a-mass-market-paperback.
dark-horse also published miniseries adapting episode-i: the-phantom-menace, episode-ii: attack of the-clones, episode-iii: revenge of the-sith .
from 1998 to 1999, dark-horse produced star-wars-manga, adapting the-original-trilogy and the-phantom-menace as manga with all-the-typical-narrative and stylistic-characteristics of the-form.
dark-horse subsequently launched dozens of series set after, in between, and before the-original-film-trilogy, including tales of the-jedi (1993–1998), x-wing:-rogue-squadron (1995–1998), republic (1998–2006), the mostly non-canonical tales (1999–2005), empire (2002–2006), knights of the old republic (2006–2010), and legacy (2006–2010)
x-wing-–-rogue-squadron follows x-wing-–-rogue-squadron beginning about one year after the-events of return of the-jedi.
x-wing – rogue-leader is a-three-part-comic-book-series set approximately one week after the-end of return of the-jedithe-jedi.
several-participants in the-destruction of the-second-death-star are sent, a little while after the-events of bakura, to scout out imperial-activity in corellian-space.
shadows of the-empire ===== =====
the-crimson-empire-trilogy follows kir-kanos, one of palpatine's-imperial-guards, beginning about seven years after the-events of return of the-jedi.
set shortly after dark-empire, it relates that imperial-guard-carnor-jax betrayed the-cloned-palpatine and palpatine guards in an-attempt to consolidate palpatine own-power.
qui-gon & obi-wan ===== qui-gon & obi-wan: last-stand on ord-mantell is a-three-part-comics-series written by ryder-windham, published by dark-horse-comics between december 2000 and march 2001.
the-story features qui-gon-jinn and obi-wan-kenobi five years before episode i – the-phantom-menace.
the-two-jedi must board the-phantom-menace and regain control.
the-old-republic are series set around the-events of the-game-series of the-same-name, exploring the-old-republic backstory.
the-clone-wars ===== =====
star-wars: agent of the-empire is a-series set a few years before episode-iv – a-new-hope, and focusing on an-imperial-intelligence-agent named jahan cross.
volume 1: iron-eclipse (collects star-wars: agent of the-empire – iron-eclipse #
published by dark-horse-comics, the-series was set in the-new-jedi-order-era and depict the-events of the-yuuzhan-vong-war over 16-issues, plus a-prologue-issue.
dark-times, is a-series set in the-years after episode iii – revenge of the-sith, and showing former-characters from star-wars: republic after order 66.star-wars: knight-errant, a-series set 1,000 years before the-phantom-menace, and dealing with a-lone-jedi's-war against the-sith.
star-wars: darth-vader, a-series set almost immediately after revenge of the-sith, and showing how darth-vader is dealing with darth-vader past as anakin-skywalker.
star-wars: dawn of the-jedi, a-series set thousands of years before episode i – the-phantom-menace, and showing the-origins of the-jedi and the-sith.
the-story is set during the-end of the-clone-wars, approximately one year before the-events of revenge of the-sith (and 20 years before the-events of a-new-hope).
while non-canonical to the-expanded-universe, star-wars-infinities shows alternate-storylines for the-original-trilogy-films, and visionaries featured stories by artists who worked on revenge of the-sith.
in this-version, luke-skywalker is more mature and a jedi, and the-main-protagonist is named annikin starkiller.
return to marvel (2015–present) ===
following the-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, the-walt-disney-company was announced in january 2014 that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015.
meanwhile, with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.early reports in may 2014 suggested that marvel would announce two new ongoing star-wars comic series at the-san-diego-comic-con.
the-initial-series, star-wars, was released in january 2015, with darth-vader debuting in february.
in august 2019, marvel announced that the-main-star-wars-series that started in 2015, which has narratively caught up to the-timeframe of the-events of the empire strikes back, would end in november 2019 with issue #75.
written by soule, a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020 will explore the-time between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020 will expand on stories like how the-demoralized-ragtag-band of rebels grows into the-massive-fleet that attacks the-second-death-star , how the-plan to rescue han-solo from jabba the-hutt is formed, how leia balances leia personal desires to save han with leia responsibilities to the-rebellion, luke's-growth as a-jedi while coming to an-understanding of darth-vader's-reveal of darth-vader's-heritage, and the-evolution of lando-calrissian from selfish-betrayer to trusted general.
darth-vader (2015) ====== ======
dark-lord of the-sith ====== ======
darth-vader (2020) ====== ======
chewbacca (october–december 2015), obi-wan & anakin (january–may 2016), and han-solo (june–november 2016), as well as the-one-shots-vader down (november 2015) and c-3po (april 2016).
in 2018, marvel adapted the-events of author-timothy-zahn's-star-wars:
adaptations of both-the-last-jedi and solo: a-star-wars-story were released, and the-timeframe of solo was explored further in the-beckett-one-shot and in limited-series featuring young-lando (double or nothing) and han's-time in the-empire (imperial-cadet).
in december 2018, a new miniseries with a-similar-premise, star wars: vader – dark-visions, was announced to be written by dennis-hopeless with art from paolo-villanelli and brian-level and was launched in march 2019.for 2019, marvel announced a-number of new-limited-series.
as a-companion to star-wars: alphabet-squadron, a-novel by author-alexander-freed centered on a-new-republic-squadron of various-rebel-ships (an-a-wing-interceptor, b-wing-heavy-assault-fighter, u-wing-transport, x-wing-starfghter, and y-wing-bomber) in the-wake of the-battle of endor, a-five-issue-series called star-wars: tie-fighter will explore the-fallout of the-battle from both-the-new-republic and imperial-remnant-sides.
in may 2019, a-one-shot by writer-matthew-rosenberg and various-artists called star-wars #108 will pick up the-story of the original marvel star-wars comic run that ended in 1986.in-connection with the-forthcoming-video-game star-wars jedi:
at a-panel discussing the-journey to the-rise of skywalker-publishing-program at san-diego-comic-con 2019, the four-issue star wars: journey to the-rise of skywalker – allegiance-miniseries was announced.
it will help cover a-one-year-period during the-time between the-last-jedi and the-rise of skywalker.
the-rise of kylo-ren premiered on december 16, 2019.
age of republic by writer-jody-houser will focus on the-time of the galactic republic and the-clone-wars during the-prequel-trilogy-era; star-wars: age of rebellion by writer-greg-pak will focus on the-galactic-civil-war between the-empire and the-rebel-alliance during the-original-trilogy-era; and star-wars:
age of resistance by writer-tom-taylor will focus on the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-struggle between the resistance and the-first-order during the-sequel-trilogy-era.
in mid-2014, marvel stated that marvel would publish collected-volumes of past-star-wars-comics, beginning with volume 1 of star-wars: the original marvel years in january 2015, and volume 1 of star-wars legends epic collection: the-empire in april 2015, which reprinted dark horse's star-wars comics.
idw has also published graphic-novel-adaptations of each-star-wars-film since the-force awakens.
references ==
references == ==
introduced as the-jedi-padawan of anakin-skywalker, she is a-protagonist of the-2008-animated-film star-wars: the-clone-wars and the-subsequent-television-series.
the-rise of skywalker.
ashley-eckstein voices ahsoka in these-appearances.
ahsoka is also the-main-character of the-eponymous-novel-star-wars: ahsoka, which has ashley-eckstein narrating the-audiobook-version.
rosario-dawson will return to play ahsoka in rosario-dawson
own-series ahsoka on disney+, releasing in 2022.
although initially disliked by both-fans and critics at first, ahsoka eventually developed into a-more-complex,-well-rounded-character, and ultimately became a fan favorite.
ahsoka was developed to illustrate how anakin-skywalker develops from the-brash,-undisciplined-padawan-apprentice in star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002) to the-more-reserved-jedi-knight in episode-iii – revenge of the-sith (2005).
it would also provide the-ahsoka-character with insight into the-ahsoka-character relationship with the-ahsoka-character own-master, obi-wan-kenobi, and depict how his own-master, obi-wan-kenobi relationship matured.
ahsoka and anakin's-relationship was seen as an-essential-story-arc spanning both-the-animated-film and the-clone-wars-television-series.
filoni initially struggled with writing ahsoka because filoni had "zero-perspective" on what it was like to be a-14-year-old-girl.
filoni, therefore, shifted filoni focus and instead wrote ahsoka primarily as a-jedi who just happens to be an-adolescent-female.
filoni began thinking about the-final-confrontation between ahsoka and vader ever since filoni created ahsoka; different-iterations had different-endings, including one in which vader kills ahsoka just as she slashes open filoni helmet to reveal anakin's-scarred-face.
ashley-eckstein, who primarily voiced ahsoka, said she and the-writers were aware that audiences initially found the-character annoying, and that there was a-"fine-line" between ahsoka being bratty and becoming endearing.
because production was a year ahead of what was broadcast, with ahsoka developing over that-time, eckstein implored fans to be patient with the-character's-growth.
although ahsoka leaves the-jedi-order at the-end of the-clone-wars'-fifth-season, the-storyline initially had she return to the-jedi-order.
lucas believed ahsoka survived order 66,
filoni, who served as executive-producer and co-creator of rebels, worked with lucas on identifying what ahsoka would know about anakin's-fate.
consequently, filoni required that ahsoka play a-role in service of rebels'-main-characters, ezra-bridger and kanan-jarrus; ezra-bridger saw ahsoka's new role as similar to the-one played by obi-wan-kenobi in star-wars.
although ahsoka is more mature in rebels, filoni wanted "aspects of that-kid who was there to shine through".
filoni initially envisioned ahsoka as a-more-"passive-player" not engaged in combat, but later decided it was more appropriate to see ahsoka as a-warrior during a-turbulent-time.
ahsoka's-presence was necessary to allow darth-vader to encounter the-show's-lead-characters without the latter being destroyed; ahsoka can stand toe-to-toe with darth-vader.
once production on the-clone-wars began, it took about-six-months for eckstein and the-writers to understand ahsoka; consequently, much of the-dialogue for the-first-half of season
eckstein reprised the-role of ahsoka for rebels, although she did not do all of fulcrum's-voice-work.
eckstein said ahsoka developed a-quiet-confidence and quiet-strength
eckstein doesn't possess, but sometimes ahsoka played ahsoka too seriously; ahsoka pointed out that "snippiness" and determination are still part of ahsoka's personality.
eckstein pitched ahsoka voice down a bit but, because ahsoka and ahsoka were now much closer in age, generally spoke like ahsoka.
not knowing ahsoka's-experiences between the-clone-wars and rebels at times presented challenges for eckstein's-performance.
filoni avoids giving the-actors plot-details that might inappropriately affect the-actors performance; for example, filoni did not tell eckstein whether ahsoka survives ahsoka duel with darth-vader lest eckstein telegraph something in ahsoka performance that the-character would not know.
ahsoka's-design evolved over three-years before ahsoka introduction in the-clone-wars-film.
ahsoka initially appears in what wired called a "tube-top-and-miniskirt costume.
in the-third-season, ahsoka and other-characters received new-costumes.
filoni said the-changes were meant to bring the show's aesthetic closer to that of revenge of the-sith and were made possible by improved-animation-techniques.
ahsoka often uses a-reverse-lightsaber-grip, similar to that of the-japanese-film-character zatoichi.
along with the-costume-change in the-third-season of clone-wars, ahsoka also received a-second-lightsaber.
the-clone-wars (2008) ====
yoda assigns yoda to anakin to teach yoda a-greater-sense of responsibility, and anakin is initially frustrated by this-decision.
their-early-interactions are "playfully contentious", with anakin calling her "snips" for her-"snippy"-attitude and ahsoka calling him "skyguy" as a-pun on him-surname.
after earning anakin's-respect on a-dangerous-mission, ahsoka joins ahsoka on a-quest to rescue jabba the-hutt's-infant-son.
her-impetuous-nature both annoys and endears her to her master, and, by the-end of the-film, anakin reveals a-newfound-affection for anakin padawan.
the-rise of skywalker (2019) ====
ahsoka-tano makes a-vocal-cameo in the-rise of skywalker as one of the-past-jedi who help rey in ahsoka-tano battle against the-resurrected-darth-sidious.
the-clone-wars (2008–2020) ====
ahsoka is a-lead-character in six of the-seven-seasons of the-clone-wars.
ahsoka is a-padawan-commander of the-501st-legion in the-grand-army of the-republic and continues to learn the-ways of the-jedi as anakin's-apprentice.
some of anakin's-actions taken out of concern for ahsoka expose ahsoka darker-tendencies, such as ahsoka torture of prisoners who may know her-location when her goes missing.
ahsoka also finds mentorship from captain-rex, a-clone-trooper with whom ahsoka and anakin serve throughout the-war.
during the-final-arc of season five, ahsoka is framed and imprisoned for a-deadly-explosion and a-subsequent-murder, both of which were committed by ahsoka friend barriss-offee.
although eventually exonerated, ahsoka becomes disillusioned with the-jedi-council and leaves the-jedi-order in the-season-finale.
anakin is greatly affected by this-ordeal and this begins to shake anakin trust in the-jedi-council.
filoni said an-initial-finale-concept for the-clone-wars would have had rex-escape-order 66, and filoni and ahsoka's-presence elsewhere would have explained both-characters'-absence from revenge of the-sith.
ahsoka returns in the-seventh-and-final-season of the-clone-wars, which aired in 2020 on disney+.
ahsoka is the-focus of two of the-three-story-arcs featured in the-season.
the-second-one, set during the-events of revenge of the-sith, sees ahsoka briefly reuniting with anakin and acting as an-advisor to rex (promoted to commander) in the-332nd-company (split from the-501st-legion) during the-siege of mandalore to capture the-former-sith-lord-maul.
when she confronts maul, he reveals that darth-sidious intends to make anakin darth-sidious new apprentice and offers to join forces to prevent this, but she does not believe darth-sidious and fights darth-sidious.
ahsoka defeats and captures maul, but as she is preparing to take darth-sidious to coruscant, she senses she former-master in trouble, though not actually aware that her former-master has fallen to the-dark-side and helped kill mace-windu.
order 66 is issued, causing ahsoka's-clone-troopers, including rex, to turn on she.
when the-venator-class-star-destroyer-tribunal the-venator-class-star-destroyer-tribunal are on crashes on a-small-moon, ahsoka and rex survive and bury all-the-deceased-clone-troopers, along with the-former's-lightsaber, before parting-ways.
the-final-scene of the-series depicts darth-vader leading a-search-party on the-moon and walking up to the-remains of the-ship.
darth-vader notices ahsoka's-blade on the-ground, picks ahsoka's-blade on the-ground up, and ignites ahsoka's-blade on the-ground, before leaving with the-saber in silence.
ahsoka is a-secretive-rebel-agent in the-first-season of star-wars-rebels, which takes place 14 years after the-clone-wars concludes.
having assumed that anakin died like most-other-jedi at the-end of the-clone-wars, she is overwhelmed to recognize she mentor under "a-layer of hate" in darth-vader.
later in the-season, a-vision of anakin blames anakin for leaving anakin and allowing anakin to fall to the-dark-side.
in the-season-finale, ahsoka duels with darth-vader inside a-sith-temple on malachor-v allowing ahsoka friends from the-ghost to escape darth-vader and the-temple's-destruction.
as the-episode concludes, darth-vader is shown injured and leaving the-temple, watched by a-green-and-white-owl.
ahsoka seemingly walking deeper inside ahsoka walls.
ezra-bridger, having ended up in the-realm "between worlds and time" within the-jedi-temple on lothal and guided by ahsoka's-convoy-morai, pulls ahsoka's-convoy-morai out of the-moment before vader could deliver the-deathblow and thus altered ahsoka's-convoy-morai fate.
ahsoka is updated on what occurred to the-ghost-crew while convincing ezra to not prevent kanan's-fate as ezra would risk losing ezra own life.
palpatine then makes palpatine presence known as palpatine attempts to force ezra into bringing ezra into the-realm with sith-sorcery.
ahsoka helps ezra escape while returning (with morai) to ahsoka timeline moments after the-sith-temple collapsed, vowing to find ezra and the-ghost-crew again.
ahsoka makes a-return-appearance in the-epilogue of the-series-finale "family-reunion – and farewell", returning to lothal following the-events of the-battle of endor to join sabine-wren in ahsoka quest to find ezra, who disappeared during lothal's liberation.
ahsoka made an-appearance in "chapter 13:
sensing great-fear in grogu, and a deep connection with the-mandalorian, ahsoka refuses to take bo-katan-kryze as an-apprentice, fearing that bo-katan-kryze could follow the-same-dark-path as her-former-master.
after the-mandalorian helps her-liberate-calidan, ahsoka tells bo-katan-kryze to take grogu to the-jedi-temple on tython, where bo-katan-kryze might be able to reach out to another-jedi through the-force.
ahsoka ===
in december 2020, lucasfilm announced ahsoka would be getting ahsoka own limited-series on disney+, titled ahsoka.
filoni said filoni does not want ahsoka thought of as an-animated-character, but rather as a star wars character who can exist "in all-forms of media".
ahsoka appears in the star wars forces of destiny series, in the-comic-touching-darkness, and as a-collectable,-playable-character in the-video-game disney infinity 3.0.
at star-wars-celebration-europe 2016, filoni, eckstein, and lucasfilm-story-group-member-pablo-hidalgo held a-panel about ahsoka's-"untold-tales" that occur between the-clone-wars and rebels.
ahsoka (2016) ====
star-wars: ahsoka (2016) ==
ahsoka (2016) ==== is set between the-events of the-clone-wars and rebels, and makes several-references to ahsoka (2016) ===='s "untold-tales".
a year after the-events of revenge of the-sith, ahsoka gains work as a-mechanic-and-freighter-pilot with the-powerful-fardi-clan on the-planet-thabeska.
ahsoka settles down on the-agrarian-moon of raada, where ahsoka finds work as a-mechanic and befriends several-local-farmers, including the-teenage-sisters kaeden and miara-larte, and their-guardian vartan.
the-galactic-empire subsequently establishes a-presence on raada and forces the-farmers to plant new-crops, which leach the-moon's-soils.
ahsoka becomes the-leader of a-resistance-movement.
however, the-planned-uprising goes awry and ahsoka exposes ahsoka force powers during a-skirmish with imperial-forces.
in response, the-galactic-empire dispatches a-jedi-hunting-inquisitor known as the-sixth-brother to hunt ahsoka.
having attracted the-attention of the-empire, ahsoka is forced to leave raada.
alderaanian-senator-bail-organa takes an-interest in imperial-reports about ahsoka and decides to find alderaanian-senator-bail-organa.
returning to the-fardis, ahsoka resumes work as a-pilot and mechanic.
with the-empire tightening the-empire grip on thabeska, the-fardi-patriarch advises ahsoka to leave.
ahsoka is captured by two-pilots in the-service of organa.
mistaking two-pilots for threats, ahsoka knocks two-pilots unconscious.
ahsoka encounters r2-d2 and convinces r2-d2 to smuggle ahsoka aboard organa's-corvette.
ahsoka forges an-alliance with organa in return for his-help in protecting force-sensitive-children from the-empire.
returning to raada, ahsoka finds miara and learns that the-sixth-brother captured ahsoka older-sister kaeden.
following a-lightsaber-duel, ahsoka defeats and kills the-sixth-brother, and takes the-sixth-brother kyber crystals to forge her-new-twin-lightsabers.
after freeing kaeden, ahsoka organizes an-evacuation of raada's-population with organa's-help.
ahsoka then decides to join organa's-rebellion while the-larte-sisters and the-other-refugees settle down on alderaan.
meanwhile, the-empire dispatches the-grand-inquisitor, a-perennial-antagonist from star-wars-rebels, to hunt down ahsoka.
after her-introduction, some-critics called ahsoka annoying and predicted the-character would die before the-clone-wars-series ended because her does not appear in revenge of the-sith.
the-los-angeles-times called ahsoka a "carefully calculated-to-be-cute" character in the-clone-wars-film.
according to tech-times, ahsoka's-maturation and development mirror the-show's, and the-producers chose wisely in making ahsoka the audience's "entry point" to the-clone-wars.
the-mary-sue said ahsoka's-relationship with anakin is critical in understanding anakin development between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith, and the-publication called ahsoka a foil for anakin's growth.
blastr commented that anakin's-interactions with ahsoka help show that he is a-powerful-jedi and war-hero.
blastr also hypothesized that anakin's-sense of failure when ahsoka leaves the-jedi contributes to the-jedi fall to the-dark-side; io9 posited that anakin might have succeeded in reforming the-jedi if ahsoka had stayed with the-jedi.
blastr identified ahsoka as one of the-most-important-characters in star-wars, especially for young-girls who, until that-point, had not seen a-potent-female-jedi depicted on screen.
erika-travis of california-baptist-university said ahsoka is "compassionate and feminine, without being overtly sexualized".
mara-wood called ahsoka a feminist icon, adding that ahsoka is one of several-characters that make the-clone-wars superior to the original and prequel trilogies in depicting strong-women.
mara-wood added that ahsoka probably shows the-most-growth of any-woman in the-star-wars-canon.
references ==
the-last-jedi (2017), was filmed in dubrovnik, croatia.
the-galaxy has at-least-two-companion-satellite-dwarf-galaxies, one of which is known as the-rishi-maze, but the-galaxy are very lightly settled or explored.
the-canon-map depicts a-top-down-view of the-galactic-disk, with "north" as the-side of the-galactic-center that coruscant is located on.
as the-capital-planet of the-republic and later-the-empire, coruscant is used as the-reference-point for galactic-astronomy, set at xyz coordinates 0-0-0.
according to the-updated-visual-dictionary-series made by pablo-hidalgo for the-sequel-trilogy, these are the-general-regions of the-galaxy spreading outward from the-core:
deep-core – the-innermost-brightly-lit-region of space, with a-supermassive-black-hole at the-center which binds the-galaxy together.
mentioned by name in the-rise of skywalker.
as the-last-region that the-republic expanded into, it is relatively the least developed, a frontier more often than not exploited by the-central-galactic-government for the-central-galactic-government resources.
more broadly, attack of the-clones established that the-star-wars-galaxy actually possesses at-least-three-small-satellite-galaxies, never colonized and considered largely inhospitable.
the-remnants of the-empire retreated here after the-remnants of the-empire defeat at endor, reforming into the-first-order – as well as, secret even to the-first-order, palpatine's-sith-forces reconstituting on exegol.
western-reaches – the-sectors once controlled by the-republic that border the-unknown-regions of the-galactic-"west".
the-planet-mandalore were the-most-difficult-enemies the-jedi ever faced short of the-sith: the-jedi were not force-wielders, but were a-culture of regular-humans who had honed the-jedi to possess the-pinnacle of combat-training, equipment, and battle-tactics.
during a-series of long-wars with the-republic, however, many centuries before the-clone-wars, the-jedi were eventually able to fight them into submission - though with heavy-losses.
the-hutts'-resources and power are formidable enough that both-the-republic and the-empire never bothered to conquer them, while the-hutts' were too divided by them
own internal-politics to seriously challenge the-republic
in issue #19 of the-comic-series star-wars-tales (2004), the-story "into the-great-unknown" finds han-solo and chewbacca in the-millennium-falcon, fleeing the-imperial-navy.
han is killed by native-americans, and a-mourning chewbacca leaves the-millennium-falcon to live in the-trees, where the-natives believe him to be the-sasquatch.
references == ===
content in this-article was copied from the-galaxy at the-wookieepedia, the-star-wars-wiki, which is licensed under the-creative-commons-attribution-share
the-force awakens: the-visual-dictionary.
star-wars: revenge of the-sith: the-visual-dictionary.
the-rise of skywalker: the-visual-dictionary.
references == ==
warner-bros.-pictures is set in the-star-wars-universe during the-clone-wars, a-three-year-conflict between the-galactic-republic and the-confederacy of independent-systems, established at the-end of star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones (2002).
in star-wars: the-clone-wars, count-dooku and jabba the-hutt's-uncle ziro orchestrate a-plot to turn jabba against the-galactic-republic by framing the-jedi for the-kidnapping of his-son, which would in turn allow ziro to take over jabba's criminal empire after jabba is arrested.
while anakin skywalker and anakin skywalker newly-assigned apprentice, ahsoka-tano, attempt to deliver jabba's-son back to jabba's-son father, obi-wan-kenobi and padmé-amidala lead separate-investigations of dooku and ziro's-plot.
the-clone-wars was the-first-star-wars-film to not be distributed by 20th-century-fox, and the first to be completely animated.
the-clone-wars served as the-backdoor-pilot to the-cartoon-network-television-series of the-same-name, which had a-far-more-favorable-reception than the-film.
the-events of the-film chronologically take place between the-clone-wars-season-1-episode "the-hidden-enemy" and the-season-3-episode "clone-cadets".
during the-first-year of the-clone-wars, jedi-knight-anakin-skywalker and his-former-master, obi-wan-kenobi lead a-small-battalion of republic-clone-troopers against the-separatist-droid-army on the-planet-christophsis.
awaiting reinforcements, the-two-jedi greet a-shuttle carrying a-young-jedi named ahsoka tano, who insists that she has been assigned by jedi-grandmaster-yoda to serve as anakin's-apprentice.
anakin reluctantly accepts ahsoka as anakin apprentice and the two succeed in deactivating the-separatists'-energy-field while obi-wan stalls the-droid-army-commander, allowing a-republic-victory.
ahsoka earns anakin's-respect.
anakin and ahsoka are tasked with retrieving the-huttlet, while obi-wan is sent to tatooine to negotiate with lord-jabba the-hutt's-son rotta over a-potential-treaty between the-hutts and the-republic.
anakin and ahsoka track the-kidnapper and rotta to the-planet-teth, where they are ambushed by separatist-forces led by count-dooku's-apprentice-asajj-ventress.
unknown to the-jedi, the-plot has been engineered by dooku's-sith-master-darth-sidious, who hopes to frame the-jedi for rotta's-kidnapping in order to get jabba to ally with the-separatists and fuel anti-jedi-sentiment from the-hutts.
the-jedi the-jedi manage to escape the-trap along with r2-d2 and hijack a-derelict-transport with which they travel to tatooine.
obi-wan, alerted by anakin, arrives on teth and defeats ventress in a-lightsaber-duel, though she manages to escape.
the-hutt refuses to cooperate, apparently believing that the-hutt is the-jedi who are responsible for the-situation.
however, padmé soon discovers that ziro has actually conspired with dooku to have rotta killed, so that jabba would execute anakin and ahsoka in return and be taken into custody by the-jedi-council, which will allow ziro to seize power over the-hutt-clan.
however, a-chance-call by c-3po enables c-3po to summon a-squadron of clone-troopers, and ziro is arrested.
upon their-arrival on tatooine, anakin and ahsoka are shot down by magnaguards.
anakin devises a-ruse to confront dooku while carrying a-decoy-rotta, leaving ahsoka to take the-real-rotta to jabba's-palace.
while anakin fights off dooku, ahsoka is ambushed by the-magnaguards, whom she defeats.
the two deliver the-real-rotta safely to jabba, who nonetheless orders the-jedi to be executed for their-supposed-kidnapping-attempt.
acknowledging the-jedi's-heroism and allowing the-republic to have ziro punished for ziro betrayal, jabba agrees to the-treaty while anakin and ahsoka are picked up by obi-wan and yoda.
the-212th-attack-battalion-taylor, leading the-212th-attack-battalion-taylor also voices 4a-7, a-droid-spy tom-kane as yoda, the-jedi-grandmaster and leader of the-jedi-council-kane also voices the-film's-narrator, who explains the-events driving the-film's-plot, and admiral-yularen, an-admiral of the-republic-navy assigned to anakin
dee-bradley-baker as captain-rex, a-clone-captain of dee-bradley-baker as captain-rex, a-clone-captain also voices commander-cody, a-clone-commander of the-212th-attack-battalion and obi-wan's second-in-command, as well as the-other-clone-troopers christopher-lee as count-dooku-/-darth-tyranus, a-sith-lord and the-puppet-leader of the-separatist-alliance samuel-l.-jackson as mace-windu, a-jedi-master, senior-member of the-jedi-council, and general of the-republic
anthony-daniels as c-3po, anakin and padme's protocol-droid-nika-futterman as asajj-ventress, count-dooku's-disciple, and as tc-70, jabba the-hutt's protocol droid ian abercrombie as chancellor-palpatine-/-darth-sidious, the-supreme-chancellor of the-galactic-republic who is secretly a-sith-lord, count-dooku's-master, and the-mastermind behind the-clone-wars-catherine-taber as padmé-amidala, the-senator of naboo and anakin's secret wife corey-burton as ziro the-hutt, a-member of the-hutt clan and
the-clone-wars was made to serve as both-a-stand-alone-story and a-lead-in to the-weekly-animated-tv-series of the-same-name.
the-story of the-kidnapped-hutt was inspired by the-sonny-chiba-samurai-film titled shogun's shadow.
the-clone-wars was composed by kevin-kiner.
randy-stradley, vice-president of publishing for dark-horse, said the-sudden-decision to release the-clone-wars-film required the-clone-wars to temporarily delay plans for two-other-star-wars-comic-book-series, dark-times and rebellion.
also released was the-clone-wars: the-visual-guide, published by dk, and star-wars: the-clone-wars in the-uk, published by puffin and in the-u.s. by grosset & dunlap.
the-clone-wars – jedi-alliance for the-nintendo-ds and star-wars: the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels for wii.
in addition to narrating the-film by karen-traviss's-plot from various-points of view, the-film by karen-traviss includes some of anakin's-memories of anakin early-childhood as a-hutt-slave, as well as some of dooku's-recollections of battling the-mandalorians (previously explored in the-2002-comic-book jango-fett: open-seasons).
the-site's-critical-consensus reads: "mechanical-animation and a-less-than-stellar-script make the-clone-wars a pale shadow of george-lucas'-once-great-franchise.
entertainment-weekly listed star-wars: the-clone-wars as one of the-five-worst-films of 2008 with critic-owen-gleiberman saying, it's hard to tell the-droids from the-jedi-drones in this-robotic-animated-dud, in which the-george-lucas-empire strikes back—at the-audience.
several-critics compared the-clone-wars to a-saturday-morning-cartoon and described a-saturday-morning-cartoon as little more than a-plug for the-upcoming-animated-series.
the-clone-wars is to star-wars what-karaoke is to pop music.
jason-anderson, of the-globe and mail, wrote that although the-clone-wars is intended for younger-audiences, "parents may be perturbed by the-film's-relentless-violence."
ebert also found protagonist-ahsoka-tano "annoying," and michael-rechtshaffen, of the-hollywood-reporter, said the-attempts of humor amid the-bickering between ahsoka-tano and anakin-skywalker are "strained".
puig said puig enjoyed the-character, and that "puig repartee with anakin enlivens things."
the-clone-wars earned $68,282,845 worldwide, including $35,161,554 in north-american-domestic-box-office-grosses and $33,121,290 in international-grosses.
the-clone-wars earned $14,611,273 on 3,452-screens in the-clone-wars opening weekend, including $6,228,973 on
the-clone-wars was the-third-highest-earning-film of the-weekend in spite of negative-critical-reception, behind tropic-thunder and the-dark-knight, which earned $25.8 million and $16.3 million, respectively.
the-clone-wars was $8.5 million, frugal considering
the-clone-wars was a-cgi-film and because the-clone-wars was meant to introduce the-animated-series.
fellman said, " the-clone-wars was targeted to a-specific-audience for specific-reasons.
when the-clone-wars dropped to $5.6 million in the-clone-wars second week of release, contactmusic.com described contactmusic.com as "the-first-bona-fide-star-wars-flop.
references ==
the-clone-wars at lucasfilm.com
the-clone-wars at imdb-star-wars:
the-clone-wars at box-office-mojo-star-wars:
the-clone-wars on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki rogue one:
a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire also details the-rebel-alliance's-first-effective-victory against the-galactic-empire, first referenced in a-new-hope's-opening-crawl.
based on an-idea first pitched by knoll ten years before a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire entered development, a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire was made to be different in tone and style from the-traditional-star-wars-films, omitting the-customary-opening-crawl and transitional-screen-wipes.
rebel-alliance-intelligence-officer-cassian-andor learns of rook's-defection and the-death-star from an-informant.
jyn, cassian, and reprogrammed imperial-droid-k-2so-travel to jedha, where the-empire is removing kyber-crystals from the-holy-city to power the-death-star; gerrera and gerrera partisans are engaged in an-armed-insurgency against his-partisans.
gerrera shows gerrera the-message, in which galen reveals galen has secretly built a-vulnerability into the-death-star and directs them to retrieve the-schematics from an-imperial-data-bank on the-planet scarif.
jyn makes jyn presence known moments before rebel-bombers attack the-facility.
krennic is summoned by darth-vader to answer for the-death-star's-attack on jedha-city.
krennic seeks krennic support for an-audience with the-emperor, but darth-vader-force-chokes darth-vader and orders darth-vader to ensure no-further-breaches occur.
jyn proposes a-plan to steal the-death-star-schematics using the-rebel-fleet but fails to gain approval from the-alliance-council, who feel victory against the-empire is now impossible.
arriving at scarif on the-stolen-imperial-ship, which rook dubs "rogue-one", a disguised jyn and cassian enter the-base with k-2so while the-other-rebels attack the-imperial-garrison as a-diversion.
the-death-star enters orbit above scarif, where tarkin uses another-low-power-shot to destroy the-compromised-base, killing krennic, cassian, and jyn, along with all-remaining-ground-imperial-and-rebel-forces.
vader boards the-rebel-command-ship and kills many of the-rebel-troops in an-attempt to regain the-schematics, but a-small-starship escapes with the-plans on board.
felicity-jones as jyn-erso, a-young-renegade-woman who is detained for felicity-jones crimes against the-empire until felicity-jones is freed by the-rebel-alliance.
forest-whitaker as saw-gerrera, a-veteran of the-clone-wars and a-friend of the-erso-family who had mentored jyn in her-later-childhood-years.
nick-kellington plays bistan, the-door-gunner on a-u-wing during the-battle on scarif.
genevieve-o'reilly was cast as mon-mothma, reprising genevieve-o'reilly role from star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
james-earl-jones was confirmed to return as the-voice of darth-vader in june 2016.
the-team reportedly searched through countless-hours of cushing-footage in order to find suitable-reference-material, and actor-guy-henry provided the-motion-capture and voice-work.
a-similar-process was used in the-portrayal of princess-leia; carrie-fisher's-appearance as leia in the-first-film was superimposed over norwegian-actress-ingvild-deila's-face and archival-audio of carrie-fisher's saying "
disney and lucasfilm had to reach an-agreement with paramount over promotion in order to avoid any-confusion in the-public-mind.
the-atlantic-writer-david-sims stated that the-trailer brought "back some-memorable-pieces of architecture, from the-lumbering-at-at-walkers to the-death-star itself, not to mention the-glorious-70s-costuming of star-wars."
during the-star-wars-celebration-europe-iii-event in london, a-new-official-poster was unveiled, which depicts a-battle taking place on the-tropical-planet scarif, with the-death-star itself looming large in a-blue-sky, above which is printed the-tagline "a-rebellion built on hope".
this-new-trailer was reviewed favorably by critics; the-daily-telegraph noted that this-new-trailer revealed new-locations such as the-planets jedha and scarif, and that this-new-trailer most significant revelation came in the-final-seconds of the-teaser, with the-appearance of darth-vader, reflected in a-computer-screen and accompanied by darth-vader classic breathing sound effect.
variety also hailed the vader reveal, and noted that the-emphasis of the-production was much more on the-kinetic-depiction of large-battle-sequences and full-on-warfare, comparing it to francis-ford-coppola's-1979-vietnam-war-epic-apocalypse now.
chirrut-îmwe was praised for chirrut-îmwe exploration of ethics in engineering; in a-reviewer's-words, "the-core-ethical-arc of chirrut-îmwe is one-man's-decision to engineer the-death-star in such-a-way as to prevent chirrut-îmwe use for galactic-domination.
journalists also criticized the-quality of the-cgi that was used to represent a-younger-carrie-fisher in order to portray princess-leia at an-earlier-time, as well as as-well-suitability in movie-making.
a-live-action-prequel-series will take place five years before the-events in rogue-one and will focus on cassian-andor with diego-luna reprising the-role.
written by veteran-star-wars-novelist-james-luceno, the-story is set some years before the-events of rogue one, and provides a-backstory to the-film.
written by novelist and comic-writer-greg-rucka, it focused on the-characters chirrut and baze, telling the-characters chirrut and baze backstories as well as giving more-context to the-events that happened on jedha prior to the-film and even-the-imperial-occupation.
references ==
references == ==
a-rogue-one-novel is set in the-star-wars-universe and takes place in the-time-period from the-clone-wars to a-couple-years after revenge of the-sith, serving as a-prelude to the 2016 star wars anthology film rogue one.
a-rogue-one-novel relates the-story of the-galactic-republic's and later-the-galactic-empire's-project to develop the-galactic-empire's-superweapon, the-death-star.
at the-end of a-major-offensive which has very nearly conquered lokori, the-attack is suspended.
the-attack is learned that the-clone-wars are over, the-republic has become an-empire, the-separatist-leadership was killed and the-jedi-order destroyed.
once the-weapons are found, the-empire uses the-circumstances to set up occupying-forces on the-planets, taking over mining-corporations on the-worlds.
the-pretext gives the-empire the-chance to exploit the-worlds-resources, overriding the-environmental-protections in force on the-two-"legacy"-worlds.
lyra returns to coruscant to find galen absorbed in galen research, and the-battle-station-project now under tight-security.
this time, the-salient-system starts fighting with the-empire, and destroying any-facilities that the-empire the-empire can use.
a-mass-market-edition was released on may 2, 2017, the same day disney-lucasfilm-press released star-wars: rebel-rising, which follows the-events of catalyst.
references ==
in the-clone-wars, kishino is the-brother of the-leader of the-onderon-rebels, steela-gerrera, with whom kishino helps free onderon from the-confederacy of independent-systems, and is mentored in military-combat by the-jedi-obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker (along with obi-wan-kenobi-padawan-ahsoka-tano) and clone-trooper-captain-rex.
director of the-clone-wars dave filoni stated: "we wanted a-brother/sister-duo on onderon, and the-character saw was a-character that george had already created, and the-character just wanted to involve and tell a little more about the-character.
the-clone-wars ====
the-jedi-knights obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker (and his-padawan ahsoka-tano), along with clone-trooper-captain-rex, secretly train saw and the-other-members of the-resistance-movement in military-combat but refuse to get involved in the-conflict, and leave ahsoka to supervise the-operation with instructions to not fight the-battle for the-jedi-knights obi-wan-kenobi and anakin-skywalker (and his-padawan ahsoka-tano).
saw is mentioned in the-star-wars-rebels-second-season-episode "the-honorable-ones", as being a-factor in agent-kallus's-disdain for the-rebellion's-tactics against the-empire and part of the-reason he participated in the-genocide of the-lasat-race of ghost-crew-member-garazeb-"zeb"-orrelios.
saw later appears in the-fourth-season's-two-part-episode "in the-name of the-rebellion", which is set shortly before the-events of rogue one.
he plays on the-frequent-theme of duality between light and dark, a-rebel-foil of darth-vader whose-body is mostly mechanized and who uses extreme-methods in the-pursuit of he goals.
bloodline, set six years before the-events of star-wars:
the force awakens, where it is noted that his-methods of combating the-empire are viewed as having been "extreme".
references ==
many-surviving-members of rogue-squadron, the-rebel-x-wing-attack-force that luke-skywalker joins during the-battle of yavin in star-wars (1977), later join rogue-squadron.
this-appearance features many-notable-pilots, including biggs-darklighter ("red-three"), jek-porkins ("red six"), wedge-antilles ("red-two"), and luke-skywalker ("red-five").
the-squadron went on to appear in the empire strikes back at the-battle of hoth and in return of the-jedi during the-attack on the-second-death-star.
in these-films-plot, the-squadron is essential to the-destruction of the-death-star at the-battle of yavin, where the-squadron engaged in a-dogfight against darth-vader.
luke would have died, had not being saved by han-solo and chewbacca piloting the-millennium-falcon, and giving luke time to deliver the-shot that destroyed the-death-star.
luke-skywalker and wedge-antilles are the-only-members of red-squadron to survive the-assault.
red-squadron on the-ice-planet-hoth, during the empire strikes back, has the-burden of defending echo-base with new-pilots added to luke-skywalker and wedge-antilles-roster, like derek-klivian and tycho-celchu.
during the-battle of hoth.
luke and wedge survive.
after the-evacuation of hoth, antilles took command during the-absence of skywalker while he trained with yoda at dagobah.
after the-events of the-empire strikes back, skywalker and antilles formed a-squadron of twelve-units around the-core-group and the-rogue-squadron
antilles often commanded the-squadron when luke had important off-flight missions.
during the-battle of endor on return of the-jedi, rogue-squadron was dissolved and absorbed into the-general-fleet and antilles took the-role of red-leader, in memory of the-battle of yavin.
luke is busy helping on the-ground as a-the-jedi, and wedge destroys the-second-death-star with the-aid of lando-calrissian and nien-numb, who pilot the-millennium-falcon.
the-anthology-film rogue-one, set shortly before a-new-hope, features many of the-pilots who fought on the-second-death-star fighting on the-battle of scarif, where jyn-erso leads a-group of rebels called rogue-one, in an-on-foot-mission to steal the-plans of the-original-death-star.
he is the-leader of rogue-squadron during the-battle of yavin 4 in a-new-hope (played by drewe henley).
luke-skywalker ===
luke-skywalker ===
came as red-five at the-battle of yavin, as portrayed in a-new-hope.
by the-time of return of the-jedi, luke was focusing on luke training as a-jedi-knight and had thus handed command of rogue-squadron to wedge.
the-last-mission of rogue-squadron takes place six years after the-battle of endor, during dark-empire.
although luke-skywalker was the-first-commander of rogue-squadron, antilles is often considered the "face" of rogue-squadron due to luke-skywalker tenure as antilles leader.
luke-skywalker appears in the-films a-new-hope, the-empire strikes back, and return of the-jedi, in which luke-skywalker commands rogue-squadron.
when seeing the-death-star for the-first-time in a-new-hope, wedge utters the-line "look at the-size of that-thing!"
colin-higgins portrayed colin-higgins during the-rebel-briefing for the-battle of yavin, where colin-higgins expresses colin-higgins doubt that even-a-computer could shoot a-proton-torpedo down the-death-star's-thermal-exhaust-port.
biggs was in the-battle of yavin-scene, where biggs joined biggs childhood friend luke-skywalker and luke's-other-wingman, wedge, in his-childhood-friend luke-skywalker and luke's-other-wingman, wedge attack run on the-first-death-star.
biggs-additional-scenes include a-conversation with luke on tatooine where biggs tells luke of biggs secret desire to join the-rebel-alliance despite biggs training at the-imperial-academy.
biggs also shows up on yavin 4 in the-rebel-base-hangar where biggs is reunited with biggs childhood best friend luke and helped convince red-squadron to allow luke to join the-squadron about to depart towards the-battle of yavin.
biggs assures red-squadron-leader-garvin-dreis that luke can handle the-x-wing, calling biggs the best bush pilot in the-outer-rim.
however,-a-line in which dreis referred to luke's-father anakin and said that "if luke's-father anakin had luke's-father anakin skill luke's-father anakin would do fine" remained on the-cutting-room-floor.
while flanking luke's-x-wing on its decisive attack run, biggs was shot down and killed by darth-vader.
biggs left tatooine to be trained as an-imperial-pilot, and during this-training, biggs heard rumors of the-death-star from fellow-trainees.
biggs came back to visit tatooine to tell biggs friends and family of biggs new assignment but only tells luke and biggs family of biggs
during the-events of a-new-hope, biggs is planning a-mutiny of the-rand-ecliptic, not realizing that several-mutinies are being planned by several-different-groups.
biggs becomes a-part of the-alliance's-missions to steal their-first-r2-units and x-wings, which their receive just days before the-battle of yavin.
the-new-republic later named a-military-base on coruscant in biggs's-honor.
force-sensitive, corran-horn helped rogue-squadron win the-second-battle of borelias, and was captured after helping capture coruscant from the-warlord-ysanne-isard.
, janson only appears in the empire strikes back in the-role of wedge-antilles'-gunner at the-battle of hoth.
some-time after the-battle of hoth.
janson also fought against the-yuuzhan-vong during the-new-jedi-order-series of novels, and kept an-eye on han-solo after the-death of chewbacca.
after the-battle of coruscant, celchu was put on trial for treason and the-murder of corran-horn, but the-prosecution dropped the-case when horn returned from the-lusankya.
klivian-flies as luke-skywalker's-wingman during the-battle of hoth.
originally doomed to die when klivian flies as luke-skywalker's-wingman during the-battle of hoth-snowspeeder crashes into general-veers'-walker, klivian flies as luke-skywalker's-wingman during the-battle of hoth-life was spared after that-scene from the-fourth-draft was cut.
klivian-flies as luke-skywalker's-wingman during the-battle of hoth first film appearance, was in leia's-briefing before the-battle of hoth, when klivian-flies as luke-skywalker's-wingman during the-battle of hoth
dak-ralter was killed in battle by a-flak-explosion from an-at-at's-heavy-guns during the-battle of hoth.
zev-senesca, callsign rogue-two, appears in the empire strikes back, and is the-pilot who locates han-solo and luke-skywalker after they get lost on hoth at the-beginning of the-film.
like dak is killed when like dak speeder is shot down by imperial-walkers during the-battle of hoth.
the-comic-series picked up with the-reformation of the-squadron after the-battle of endor.
by the-time of the-events of the-new-jedi-order, horn was a-jedi-knight and no longer a-member of the-squadron, but the-rogues are still a-vital-fighting-force and command a-presence in several of the-new-jedi-order-novels as well.
in dark-horse's-eponymous-star-wars-series (2013–14), set in the-months after a-new-hope, leia has begun calling the-former-red-squadron-"stealth-squadron", but wedge reveals to luke that luke prefers the-name "rogue-squadron".
the-renegade-flight is eventually destroyed before the-empire strikes back on an-escort-mission with a-convoy carrying supplies for the-rebel-base.
during the-battle of hoth, the-rogues on hoth had to add many-"guest"-members into the-rogues on hoth squadron.
the-twelve-snowspeeders of the-rogues on hoth gave the-rebels enough-time to evacuate the-rebel-base and were destroyed later in the-battle of hoth.
before return of the-jedi, one of luke's-last-missions was the-battle of gall against the-empire, in an-attempt to capture the-bounty-hunters who had abducted han-solo.
after return of the-jedi, rogue-squadron was hastily and temporarily reformed by antilles with the-best-rebel-pilots in order to defend the-planet-bakura.
wraith-squadron played a-role in the-battle for mon-calamari during admiral-daala's-campaign against the-new-republic.
during the-battle of coruscant, gavin became emotionally involved with asyr
i, jedi, as well as several new jedi order novels (in which he is a jedi knight, not a-rogue-squadron-pilot).
during the-events of the-yuuzhan-vong-war, horn was promoted to jedi and eventually went on to serve on the jedi council as one of the most powerful and prominent jedi of horn time.
references =
however, fearing that disney would not allow the-ending, knoll and whitta wrote that cassian escapes scarif with the death star plans alongside jyn-erso and, though knoll and whitta ship is destroyed by darth-vader after knoll and whitta transfer the-plans to princess-leia, knoll and whitta narrowly survive in an-escape-pod.
galen ultimately leads a-team with jyn to steal the-plans for the-death-star on scarif, where galen infiltrates its-imperial-data-center with jyn and k-2so.
the-death-star then fires upon the-planet, killing cassian and jyn as they embrace.
references == ==
industrial-light-&-magic-chief-creative-officer-john-knoll, credited for the-story of rogue-one, told vanity-fair in 2016 that he conceived the-plot of the-film while working as a-visual-effects-supervisor on the-2005-film-star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
" once shooting had begun, bodhi was brought into the-story much earlier and was made a more integral member of the-team.
bodhi-rook was an-imperial-cargo-pilot working on an-imperial-research-facility on the-planet-eadu, and under the-influence of galen, whom bodhi-rook describes as a-"great-man", rook-defects from the-empire and joins the-rebel-alliance with news of a-"planet-destroyer".
in a-star-wars-story, riz-ahmed has just defected from the-empire after being given a-holographic-message of galen-erso, father of lead-character-jyn-erso.
rook's-role in the-battle is to stay on the-stolen-ship, as rook is the-rebels'-only-chance of escape, after being told by cassian that rook must make contact with the-rebels to get assistance and destroy the-shield surrounding the-planet.
references == ==
darth-vader is a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise.
the-character is the-primary-antagonist in the-original-trilogy and, as anakin-skywalker, is a-primary-protagonist in the-prequel-trilogy.
originally a slave on tatooine, anakin is a-jedi prophesied to bring balance to the-force.
anakin is lured to the-dark-side of the-force by palpatine and becomes a-sith-lord, assuming the-title darth-vader.
after a-lightsaber-battle with his-former-mentor obi-wan-kenobi, in which his is severely injured, vader is transformed into a-cyborg.
he then serves the-galactic-empire as the-galactic-empire chief enforcer until he ultimately redeems he by saving he son, luke-skywalker, and killing palpatine, sacrificing he own life in the-process.
he has been portrayed by numerous-actors: david-prowse physically portrayed vader while james-earl-jones voiced he in the-original-trilogy, and sebastian-shaw portrayed the-unmasked-anakin in return of the-jedi, as well as the-character's-spirit in the-original-release of that-film.
jake-lloyd and hayden-christensen played he in the-prequel-trilogy in the-first-and-next-two-films, respectively, and the latter also replaced sebastian-shaw as anakin's-spirit with the-2004-re-release of return of the-jedithe-jedi.
he is referenced in both the force awakens and the-last-jedi, and makes vocal-cameos as both-vader and anakin in the-rise of skywalker.
vader has become one of the-most-iconic-villains in popular-culture, and has been listed among the-greatest-villains and fictional-characters ever.
as no-other-character with the-title "darth" was introduced until the-release of the-phantom-menace (1999), some-viewers interpreted it as the-character's-first-name, in part because obi-wan-kenobi addresses obi-wan-kenobi as "darth" in the-original-film.
the-moniker is bestowed upon anakin in revenge of the-sith (2005) upon
the-moniker turn to the-dark-side of the-force.
director-ken-annakin's-films swiss-family-robinson and battle of the-bulge influenced the-original-trilogy, leading some to believe that anakin was named after him.
anakin and luke's-original-surname "starkiller" remained in the-script until a-few-months into filming star-wars, when it was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson and replaced with "skywalker".
in the-italian-language-editions, darth-vader is named "dart fener".
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler.
in the-next-draft himself, dated april 1, 1978, lucas made use of a-new-plot-twist: vader claiming to be luke's-father.
lucas has said that lucas knew vader was luke's-father while writing the-first-film, though the-relationship is not evidenced before said-draft of the empire strikes back.
author-michael-kaminski argues in the-secret-history of star-wars that it is unlikely that the-plot-point had ever seriously been considered or even conceived of before 1978, and that the-first-film was clearly operating under a-storyline where vader was a-separate-character from luke's-father.
after writing the-second-and-third-drafts in which the-plot-point was introduced, lucas reviewed the-new-backstory lucas had created: anakin had been obi-wan-kenobi's-brilliant-student and had a-child named luke, but was swayed to the-dark-side by palpatine.
anakin battled obi-wan on the-site of a-volcano and was badly wounded, but was then reborn as vader.
meanwhile, obi-wan hid luke on tatooine while the-galactic-republic became the-tyrannical-galactic-empire and vader systematically hunted down and killed the-jedi.
for the-first-prequel,-episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), lucas made anakin nine years old to make the-character's-separation from anakin mother more poignant.
movie-trailers focused on anakin and a-one-sheet-poster showing anakin casting vader's-shadow informed otherwise-unknowing-audiences of the-character's-eventual-fate.
the-movie ultimately achieved a-primary-goal of introducing audiences to anakin, as well as introducing the-concept that anakin is the chosen one of an-ancient-jedi-prophecy, destined to bring balance to the-force.
lucas states in an-interview recorded around the-time of the-third-prequel, revenge of the-sith (2005), that "anakin is the chosen one.
even when anakin turns into darth-vader, anakin is still the chosen one.
"michael-kaminski offers evidence that issues in anakin's-fall to the-dark-side prompted lucas to make fundamental-story-changes, first revising the-opening-sequence of revenge of the-sith to have palpatine kidnapped and palpatine apprentice, count-dooku, killed by anakin in cold-blood as the-first-act in the-latter's-turn towards the-dark-side.
after principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas re-wrote anakin's-turn to the-dark-side; anakin's-fall from grace would now be motivated by a-desire to save his-wife, padmé-amidala, rather than the-previous-version in which that-reason was one of several, including that his genuinely believed that the-jedi were plotting to take over the-republic.
this fundamental re-write was accomplished both through editing the-principal-footage, and new-and-revised-scenes filmed during pick-ups in 2004.during-production of the-animated-the-clone-wars-television-series, ahsoka-tano was developed to illustrate how anakin develops from the-brash,-undisciplined-padawan-apprentice in attack of the-clones (2002) to the-more-reserved-jedi-knight in revenge of the-sith.
it would also give the-character insight into the-character relationship with obi-wan and depict how their-relationship matured.
ahsoka and anakin's-relationship was seen as an-essential-story-arc spanning both-the-animated-film-and-clone-wars-television-series.
dave-filoni began thinking about the-final-confrontation between ahsoka and vader ever since dave-filoni created the former; different-iterations had different-endings, including one in which vader kills ahsoka just as dave-filoni slashes open dave-filoni helmet to reveal dave-filoni scarred face.
a-similar-scene is included in an-episode of rebels, in which ahsoka slashes vader's helmet open, and the-sith-lord recognizes her.
according to filoni, ahsoka's-presence in the-series allows vader to encounter the-show's-lead-characters without the latter being "destroyed", as ahsoka can "stand toe-to-toe" with her-former-master.
the-idea that vader should wear a-breathing-apparatus was first proposed by concept-artist-ralph-mcquarrie during preproduction-discussions for star-wars with george-lucas in 1975.
mcquarrie noted that the-script indicated that darth-vader would travel between spaceships and needed to survive in the-vacuum of space, and darth-vader proposed that darth-vader should wear some-sort of space-suit.
mcquarrie's-1975-production-painting of darth-vader engaged in a-lightsaber-duel with deak-starkiller (a-character-prototype for luke-skywalker) depicts darth-vader wearing black-armor, a-flowing-cape and an-elongated,-skull-like-mask and helmet.
its-similarity to the-final-design of vader's-costume demonstrates that mcquarrie's-earliest-conception of vader was so successful that very little needed to be changed for production.
darth-vader was portrayed by bodybuilder-david-prowse in the-original-film-trilogy, with fencer-bob-anderson performing the-character's-lightsaber-fight-scenes.
at 6-ft 6 in (1.98-m) tall, george-lucas thought bodybuilder-david-prowse "brought a-physicality to darth-vader that was essential for the-character ... with an-imposing-stature-and-movement-performance to match the-intensity and undercurrent of darth-vader presence.
the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones initially felt the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones contributions to the-films were too small to warrant recognition and the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones role was uncredited at the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones request until the-release of return of the-jedi (1983).
when the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones was specifically asked if the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones had supplied vader's-voice for revenge of the-sith—either newly or from a-previous-recording—the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones answered, "you'd have to ask lucas about that.
christensen alternately portray vader in revenge of the-sith.
during the-production of revenge of the-siththe-sith, christensen asked lucas if a-special-vader-suit could be constructed to fit vader-own-body, rather than have a-different-actor don one of the-original-sets of vader-armor worn by prowse.
brock-peters provided the-voice of vader in the-npr/usc-radio-series.
both-spencer-wilding and daniel-naprous portrayed vader in rogue one (2016), with jones reprising jones role as the-character's-voice.
matt-sloan, who appeared in the-youtube-parody chad-vader, provided the-voice of darth-vader in the force unleashed.
as a-result of his-video-game-appearances, nelson was cast to appear as darth-vader in brief-sequences inserted into the-special-edition of the-empire
strikes back, in which darth-vader is seen boarding darth-vader shuttle.
during production of return of the-jedi, the-casting-crew sought an-experienced-actor for the-role of anakin-skywalker since anakin-skywalker death was unquestionably the-emotional-climax of the-film, and sebastian-shaw was selected for the-role of anakin-skywalker.
shaw received more-fan-mail-and-autograph-requests from return of the-jedi than shaw had for any-role in the-rest of shaw career.
shaw later reflected that shaw enjoyed shaw experience filming return of the-jedi the-jedi and expressed particular-surprise that an-action-figure was made of shaw from the-film.
when the-phantom-menace was being produced, hundreds of actors were tested for the-role of young-anakin before the-producers settled on jake-lloyd, who lucas considered met shaw-requirements of "a-good-actor, enthusiastic and very energetic".
during production of attack of the-clones, casting director-robin-gurland reviewed about-1,500-other-candidates for the-role of the-young-anakin before lucas eventually selected hayden-christensen for the-role.
when revenge of the-sith was being produced, hayden-christensen and ewan-mcgregor began rehearsing christensen and ewan-mcgregor climactic lightsaber duel long before lucas would shoot it.
anakin has also been voiced by mat-lucas for the-2003-micro-series-clone-wars, and by matt-lanter in the-cgi-animated-film the-clone-wars, the-television-series of the-same-name and for anakin's small roles in the-animated-series-rebels and forces of destiny.
in attack of the-clones, anakin-skywalker feels "smothered" by obi-wan-kenobi and is incapable of controlling obi-wan-kenobi own life.
by revenge of the-sith, however, his-"father-son"-friction with his-master has matured into a-more-equal,-brotherly-relationship.
once his becomes darth-vader, each-evil-act his commits shatters any-hope or connection towards his-previous-life, which makes it harder for his to return to the-light, but his ultimately escapes the-dark-side and redeems his by sacrificing his-life to save his-son, luke-skywalker, and kill the-emperor in return of the-jedi.
eric-bui, a-psychiatrist at university of toulouse hospital, argued at the-2007-american-psychiatric-association-convention that anakin-skywalker meets six of the-nine-diagnostic-criteria for borderline-personality-disorder (bpd), one more than necessary for a-diagnosis.
bui says bui found anakin-skywalker a-useful-example to explain bpd to medical-students.
anakin's-mass-murders of the-tusken-raiders in attack of the-clones and the-young-jedi in revenge of the-sith-count as two-dissociative-episodes, fulfilling another-criterion.
darth-vader/anakin-skywalker appears in seven of the-live-action-star-wars-films, the animated series the-clone-wars (including the-film), rebels, and the-micro-series-clone-wars and forces of destiny.
darth-vader first appears in star-wars as a-ruthless-cyborg-sith-lord serving the-galactic-empire.
darth-vader is tasked, along with grand-moff-tarkin (peter-cushing), with recovering the-secret-plans for the-death-star-superweapon, which were stolen by the-rebel-alliance.
darth-vader captures and tortures princess-leia (carrie-fisher), who has hidden the-plans inside the-droid r2-d2-(kenny-baker) and sent the-droid r2-d2-(kenny-baker to find darth-vader's former jedi master obi-wan kenobi (alec-guinness) on the-planet-tatooine.
during leia's-rescue by obi-wan's-allies luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and han-solo
(harrison ford), vader strikes down obi-wan's in a-lightsaber-duel.
having placed a-tracking-device aboard during leia's-rescue by obi-wan's-allies luke-skywalker (mark-hamill) and han-solo-ship, the-millennium-falcon, vader is able to track down the-rebel-base on the-planet yavin 4.
during the-rebel-attack on the-death-star, vader-boards-vader tie fighter and attempts to shoot down rebel-x-wing-fighters, but solo intervenes and sends vader's-ship spiraling off course, allowing luke to destroy the-death-star.
in the empire strikes back, vader becomes obsessed with finding the-force-sensitive-luke and leads his-stormtroopers to attack on the-rebel-base on hoth, which the-rebels escape.
while conversing with the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) via hologram, vader convinces the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) that luke would be a-valuable-ally if the-emperor (ian-mcdiarmid) could be turned to the-dark-side.
vader hires a-group of bounty-hunters to follow luke's-friends, and negotiates with bespin-administrator-lando-calrissian (billy-dee-williams) to set a-trap for them to bait luke.
after han,-leia,-chewbacca (peter-mayhew), and c-3po (anthony-daniels) arrive, vader tortures and freezes han in carbonite and gives han in carbonite to the-bounty-hunter-boba-fett (jeremy-bulloch).
when luke arrives, vader overpowers luke in a-lightsaber-duel, severing luke hand.
vader tells luke that vader is vader father, and tries to persuade vader to join the-dark-side and help vader overthrow the-emperor.
horrified, luke escapes through an-air-shaft.
vader telepathically tells luke that it is vader destiny to join the-dark-side.
in return of the-jedi, vader and the-emperor supervise the-final-stages of the-second-death-star's-construction.
thinking that there is still good in his-father, luke surrenders to vader and tries to convince his to turn from the-dark-side.
vader takes luke to the-second-death-star to meet the-emperor.
while there, the-emperor tempts luke to give in to the-emperor anger, which leads to vader dueling with luke once again.
realizing that leia is luke's-twin-sister, vader threatens to turn leia is luke's-twin-sister to the-dark-side if luke will not submit.
furious, luke overpowers vader and severs luke father's cybernetic hand.
the-emperor entreats luke to kill vader and take vader place.
luke refuses and the-emperor tortures luke with force-lightning.
unwilling to let his-son die, vader throws the-emperor down a-reactor-chute to the-emperor death, but is mortally wounded by the-emperor former master's lightning in the-process.
the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker asks luke to remove the-redeemed-anakin-skywalker mask, and admits that there was still good in luke after all as luke dies peacefully in luke 's arms.
luke escapes the-second-death-star with luke father's body and cremates his-father's-body in a-pyre on endor.
as the-rebels celebrate the-second-death-star's-destruction and the-empire's-defeat, luke sees the-spirits of anakin, yoda (frank-oz), and obi-wan watching over obi-wan.
, anakin appears as a-nine-year-old-slave living on tatooine with anakin mother shmi (pernilla-august).
in addition to being a-gifted-pilot and mechanic, anakin has built anakin own protocol droid, c-3po.
jedi-master-qui-gon-jinn (liam-neeson) meets anakin after making an-emergency-landing on tatooine with queen of naboo-padmé-amidala (natalie-portman).
qui-gon learns from shmi that anakin was conceived without a-father and can foresee the-future.
qui-gon senses anakin's-strong-connection to the-force and becomes convinced that he is the "chosen one" of jedi-prophecy who will bring balance to the-force.
after winning his-freedom in a-podrace-wager, anakin leaves with qui-gon to be trained as a-jedi on coruscant, but is forced to leave his-mother behind.
during the-journey, anakin forms a-bond with padmé.
eventually, anakin helps end the-corrupt-trade-federation's-invasion of naboo by destroying their-control-ship.
after qui-gon is killed in a-lightsaber-duel with sith-lord-darth-maul (portrayed by ray-park, voiced by peter-serafinowicz), qui-gon's apprentice obi-wan kenobi (ewan-mcgregor) promises to train anakin, with the-jedi-council's-reluctant-approval.
palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor, befriends anakin and tells palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor, "we will watch your-career with great-interest".
over the-years, palpatine, newly elected as the-galactic-republic's-chancellor has grown powerful but arrogant, and believes that obi-wan is holding obi-wan back.
after rescuing padmé from an-assassination-attempt, anakin travels with anakin to naboo as anakin bodyguard, and they fall in love, which is against the-jedi-code.
sensing that shmi is in pain, anakin travels with padmé to tatooine to rescue anakin mother.
while there, anakin learns that shmi had been freed by and
anakin locates shmi at a-tusken-campsite, where cliegg dies in married farmer cliegg lars (jack-thompson) arms.
anakin then travels with padmé to geonosis to rescue obi-wan from sith-lord-count-dooku (christopher-lee).
obi-wan and anakin confront sith-lord-count-dooku (christopher-lee), but the-sith-lord beats obi-wan and anakin both in a-lightsaber-duel and severs anakin's arm.
after being rescued by yoda, anakin is fitted with a-robotic-arm and marries padmé in a-secret-ceremony.
in episode iii: revenge of the-sith, set three years after attack of the-clones, anakin is now a-jedi-knight and a-hero of the-clone-wars.
anakin and obi-wan lead a-mission to rescue palpatine from separatist-commander-general-grievous (voiced by matthew-wood).
the-two-jedi-battle-count-dooku, whom anakin overpowers and decapitates in cold-blood at palpatine's-urging.
the-two-jedi-battle-count-dooku, whom anakin overpowers and decapitates in cold-blood at palpatine's urging rescue-palpatine and return to coruscant.
anakin reunites with padmé, who tells anakin that anakin is pregnant.
although initially excited, anakin soon begins to have nightmares about padmé dying in childbirth.
palpatine also appoints anakin to the-jedi-council as palpatine personal representative.
suspicious of palpatine, the-jedi-council allows anakin as a-member, but declines to grant palpatine the-rank of jedi-master and instead instructs palpatine to spy on palpatine, diminishing anakin's trust in the-jedi-council.
later, palpatine reveals to anakin that palpatine is the-sith-lord-darth-sidious, and says that only he has the-power to save padmé from dying.
anakin reports sidious'-treachery to jedi-master-mace-windu (samuel-l.-jackson), who confronts and subdues sidious.
desperate to save padmé, anakin intervenes on sidious'-behalf and disarms windu, allowing sidious to kill windu.
anakin then pledges anakin to the-sith, and sidious dubs anakin darth vader.
on sidious-orders, darth-vader leads the-501st-legion to kill everyone in the-jedi-temple, including the-children, and then goes to the-volcanic-planet mustafar to assassinate the-separatist-council.
a-distraught-padmé goes to mustafar and implores darth-vader to abandon the-dark-side, but darth-vader refuses.
sensing-obi-wan's presence, and thinking that they are conspiring to kill sensing-obi-wan, vader angrily uses the-force to strangle padmé to unconsciousness.
obi-wan engages vader in a-lightsaber-duel that ends with obi-wan severing vader's limbs and leaving obi-wan for dead on the-banks of a-lava-flow, severely burned.
when vader asks if padmé is safe, sidious says that sidious killed her out of anger, and vader screams in agony.
at the-end of the-film, vader supervises the-construction of the-first-death-star alongside sidious and tarkin (wayne-pygram).
darth-vader's-melted-helmet appears in the force awakens (2015), in which vader's-grandson kylo-ren (adam-driver) is seen addressing vader's-grandson kylo-ren (adam-driver), though darth-vader does not appear in the-film.
at one-point, vader's-grandson kylo ren (adam-driver) helmet was considered as the-film's-macguffin.
the-helmet appears again in the-rise of skywalker (2019), when kylo briefly meditates with kylo, and during the-film's-first-duel between kylo and rey (daisy-ridley), during which kylo is last seen on kijimi, which is later destroyed by a-sith-star-destroyer.
the-film also reveals that the-voice which ren perceived coming from vader's-helmet in the-force-awakens was generated by emperor-palpatine.
in the-rise of skywalker, anakin makes a-vocal-cameo, along with other-"voices of jedi-past", where anakin encourages rey to "bring back the-balance... as [anakin] did" before anakin faces a-resurrected-palpatine.
the-clone-wars (film) ====
a-responsibility anakin calls a-responsibility anakin "snips" for a-responsibility anakin "snippy" attitude, while ahsoka calls a-responsibility anakin "skyguy" as a-pun on a-responsibility anakin surname.
after earning anakin's-respect during a-dangerous-mission, ahsoka joins ahsoka on a-quest to rescue jabba the-hutt's-infant-son, rotta.
her-impetuousness both annoys and endears her to her master, and anakin develops a-friendly-affection for anakin apprentice.
in the-first-anthology-film rogue one (2016), darth-vader makes a-cameo-appearance in which darth-vader summons orson-krennic (ben-mendelsohn), the-imperial-director of advanced-weapons-research, to darth-vader castle on mustafar.
darth-vader confronts darth-vader about darth-vader handling of the-death-star-project and the-destruction of jedha-city, while krennic asks darth-vader for an-audience with the-emperor regarding the-death-star, which the-emperor lost command of to tarkin.
vader refuses, ordering vader to ensure that the-death-star-project has not been compromised.
when krennic asks vader if vader would still regain command of the-death-star, vader uses the-force to choke he would still regain command of the-death-star, telling he would still regain command of the-death-star, "be careful not to choke on your-aspirations, director. "
at the-end of the-film, vader boards the-disabled-rebel-flagship, the-mc75-star-cruiser-profundity, with a-cadre of 501st
legion-troopers and kills several-rebel-soldiers as vader attempts to recover the-plans.
however, the-docked-blockade-runner-tantive-iv escapes with the-plans, setting up the-events of a-new-hope.
darth-vader had a-much-different-role in early-versions of the-film's-story.
screenwriter-gary-whitta stated that in screenwriter-gary-whitta initial pitch, darth-vader would appear on scarif and slaughter the-rebel-blockade there.
in an-earlier-storyline, darth-vader would also have killed krennic for darth-vader failure to prevent the-rebels from stealing the-death-star-plans.
an-image of a-deleted-scene featuring darth-vader was revealed in february 2021 by industrial-light-&-magic-visual-effects-animator-hal-hickel, who added that darth-vader was supposed to have a-conversation with tarkin in that-scene.
anakin is a-lead-character in all-three-seasons of the-clone-wars-micro-series, which takes place shortly after the-conclusion of attack of the-clones.
anakin becomes a-jedi-knight and is quickly promoted to a-general of the-republic's-clone-army, due in part to palpatine's (voiced by nick-jameson)-influence.
among other-missions, palpatine fights a-duel with dooku's-apprentice-asajj-ventress (voiced by grey-delisle), helps obi-wan (voiced by james-arnold-taylor) capture a-separatist-controlled-fortress and rescues jedi-master-saesee-tiin (voiced by dee-bradley-baker) during a-space-battle.
during the-third-season, anakin frees a-planet's-indigenous-species from separatist-control and sees a-cryptic-vision of anakin future as darth-vader.
in the-series-finale, anakin and obi-wan go on a-mission to rescue palpatine from general-grievous, leading to the-opening of revenge of the-sith.
the-clone-wars (2008–2014, 2020) ====
anakin is a-lead-character in all-seasons of the-clone-wars.
as a-jedi-knight, anakin leads the-501st-legion on missions with both anakin master obi-wan and apprentice-ahsoka-tano throughout the-war.
some of anakin's-actions taken out of concern for ahsoka violate the-jedi-code, such as torturing prisoners who may know her-location when her goes missing.
throughout the-series there are several-references to anakin's-eventual-fall to the-dark-side, including visions of anakin-future as darth-vader in the-third-season, and disillusion with the-jedi-council after the-jedi-council wrongly accuse ahsoka of bombing the-jedi-temple in the-fifth-season.
anakin appears as vader in the-final-scene of the-series-finale, some time after revenge of the-sith.
anakin investigates the-crash-site of ahsoka's-star-destroyer, which collapsed during battle with clone-troopers after darth-sidious issued order 66, turning the-clones against the-jedi.
finding lightsaber among the-wreckage, vader assumes that vader former padawan has perished and leaves with her-lightsaber.
darth-vader appears in two-episodes of the-first-season of star-wars-rebels, which takes place 14 years after the-clone-wars concludes, and serves as the-main-antagonist of the-clone-wars second season.
darth-vader leads a-squadron of force-sensitive-imperial-inquisitors who actively search for and kill any-remaining-jedi-and-force-sensitive-children.
in the-second-season-premiere, darth-vader orchestrates the-murder of minister-maketh-tua, an-imperial who tried to defect to the-rebellion, and confronts the-rebel-crew of the-ghost.
when the-rebel-crew of the-ghost later attacks the-fleet of the-phoenix-squadron, darth-vader discovers that ahsoka is still alive and has joined the-rebel-alliance, while ahsoka is overwhelmed when ahsoka recognizes anakin under "a-layer of hate" in darth-vader.
the-emperor orders vader to dispatch an-inquisitor to capture the-emperor.
later in the-season, ahsoka has a-vision in which anakin blames anakin for allowing anakin to fall to the-dark-side.
in the-season-finale, ahsoka duels with ahsoka former-master inside a-sith-temple, allowing ahsoka friends to escape vader and the-temple's-destruction.
as the-episode concludes, vader escapes from the-temple's-ruins.
vader makes a-final-voiceless-cameo in the-late-fourth-season-episode "a-world between worlds", in which it is revealed that ahsoka escaped from ahsoka previous-duel with vader by entering a-force-realm.
anakin-skywalker appears in multiple-episodes of the-2d-animated-online-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny.
obi-wan-kenobi ====
on december 10, 2020, during a-disney-investor-event, it was announced that hayden-christensen would return as vader in the upcoming disney+
in the-first-chapter of the-novelization of the-phantom-menace, anakin participates in a-podrace through beggar's-canyon on tatooine.
lords of the-sith was one of the-first-four-canon-novels to be released in 2014 and 2015.
in lords of the-sith, vader and palpatine find vader and palpatine hunted by revolutionaries on the-twi'lek-planet-ryloth.
in 2015, marvel released a-25-issue-series called darth vader (2015–16), written by kieron-gillen.
a-25-issue-series called darth vader (2015–16), written by kieron-gillen takes place parallel to the-comic-book-series star-wars, in which vader and luke meet; the-two-series have a-crossover titled vader down.
a continuation set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi debuted in 2020, written by greg-pak.
the-first-few-issues deal with vader carrying out vader revenge on those who concealed luke; vader also visits padmé's-tomb on naboo and encounters her-handmaidens.
the-five-issue-limited-series obi-wan & anakin (2016), written by charles-soule, depicts the-lives of the-jedi between the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones.
at new-york-comic-con 2015, charles-soule described the-story as "pretty-unexplored-territory".
between 2017 and 2018, charles-soule wrote a-prequel-era-series, also called darth vader (sometimes subtitled dark lord of the-sith).
it begins immediately after vader wakes up in vader armor at the-end of revenge of the-sith and explores vader emotional transformation upon learning of padmé's-death, vader adjustment to vader mechanical suit, how vader creates vader red-bladed lightsaber, and vader hunting of jedi in the-inquisitor-program (introduced in rebels).
its-final-arc, which deals with the-construction of vader's-fortress on mustafar, implies that palpatine used the-force to conceive anakin in utero, as some had theorized that revenge of the-sith indicates.
the-game, titled vader immortal, had three-episodes overall, set between revenge of the-sith and rogue one; the first became available with the-launch of oculus-quest, while the-last-episode was released on november 21, 2019.
vader is featured prominently in novels set in the-star-wars-universe.
in the-1978-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye by alan-dean-foster, vader meets luke-skywalker for the-first-time and engages luke-skywalker in a-lightsaber-duel that ends with luke cutting off vader's arm and vader falling into a-deep-pit.
shadows of the-empire (1996) reveals that vader is conflicted about trying to turn vader son to the-dark-side of the-force, and knows deep down that there is still some good in his-son.
vader's-supposedly-indestructible-glove is the-macguffin of the-young-reader's-book the-glove of darth-vader (1992).
anakin-skywalker's-redeemed-spirit appears in the-truce at bakura (1993), set a few days after the-end of return of the-jedi.
anakin-skywalker's appears to leia, imploring leia forgiveness.
leia condemns anakin for leia crimes and exiles him from leia life.
leia promises that leia will be there for leia when leia needs leia, and disappears.
in tatooine-ghost (2003), leia learns to forgive leia father after learning about her-father-childhood as a-slave and
in the-unifying-force (2003), anakin tells anakin grandson jacen solo to "stand firm" in anakin battle with the-supreme-overlord of the-yuuzhan-vong.
greg-bear's-2000-novel-rogue-planet and jude-watson's-jedi-quest-series-chronicle-anakin's-early-missions with obi-wan, while james-luceno's-2005-novel-labyrinth of evil, set during the-clone-wars, depicts anakin battling separatist-commander-general-grievous.
in luceno's-dark-lord: the-rise of darth-vader (2005), set a few months after the-events of revenge of the-sith, vader disavows vader identity as skywalker as vader systematically pursues and kills the-surviving-jedi and cements the-surviving-jedi position in the-empire.
the-novel reveals that vader plans to eventually overthrow palpatine and that vader betrayed the-jedi because vader resented the-jedi supposed failure to recognize vader power.
in the-dark-nest-trilogy (2005), luke and leia uncover old-recordings of luke and leia parents in r2-d2's-memory-drive; for the-first-time, luke and leia see luke and leia own birth and luke and leia mother's death, as well as luke and leia father's corruption to the-dark-side.
in bloodlines (2006), han and leia's-son jacen—who has turned to the-dark-side—uses the-force to envision vader slaughtering the-children at the-jedi-temple.
vader also appears in a-series of tongue-in-cheek children's books by jeffrey-brown.
in jeffrey-brown's-series, vader-vader sets out to be a-father to a-young-luke and leia, with some-scenes portraying light-hearted-versions of a-young-luke and leia darker film counterparts.
for example, one-scene shows vader, luke and leia at the-carbonite-freezing-chamber on bespin, with vader pronouncing the-freezer adequate for making ice-cream.
vader appears in several-comic-books such as marvel-comics'-star-wars (1977–1986).
in dark-empire-ii, vader is revealed to have had a-castle on the-planet-vjun.
anakin-skywalker is a-major-character in dark-horse-comics'-star-wars: republic-series (1998–2006).
in boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), vader hires fett a few years before the-events of a-new-hope.
in vader's-quest (1999), set soon after a-new-hope, the-dark-lord encounters luke for the-first-time.
anakin and vader appear in the-non-canonical-star-wars-tales (1999–2005); in the-story-resurrection, darth-maul is resurrected and faces vader in battle.
vader-centric-comics released and set just after revenge of the-sith include dark-times (2006–2013), darth-vader and the-lost-command (2011), darth-vader and the-ghost-prison (2012), and darth-vader and the-cry of shadows (2013–14).
darth-vader and anakin-skywalker have appeared in a-number of star-wars since the-earliest-days of the-franchise, though rarely as a-playable-character.
darth-vader plays a-central-role in star-wars:
the-force unleashed (2008), where he is the-playable-character for the-first-level of the-game.
the-force unleashed-ii as the-final-boss.
darth-vader has also appeared in non-star-wars-video-games as a-guest-character, for example soulcalibur iv (2008).
most recently, darth-vader makes a-cameo-appearance in the-final-mission of star-wars-jedi:
after vader kills her for her-failure to retrieve a-jedi-holocron, the-protagonist, padawan-cal-kestis, must escape from vader, who attempts to get a-jedi-holocron in his-possession.
in the-story, vader colludes with boba-fett to entrap the-rebels.
vader features in the-1981-radio-drama-adaptation of star-wars, voiced by the-actor brock-peters.
vader makes vader first appearance on the-planet-ralltiir, where vader treats princess-leia with suspicion.
in later-extended-scenes, he is heard interrogating and torturing leia on board he-star-destroyer and aboard the-death-star.
vader appears in star-tours –
the-adventures continue, where vader is once again voiced by jones.
an-action-figure of vader comes to life alongside robocop-and-jurassic-park-toys in the-indian in the-cupboard (1995).
vader also had a-brief-cameo in night at the-museum: battle of the-smithsonian (2009), in which vader and oscar the-grouch try unsuccessfully to join the-army formed by ivan the terrible, napoleon and al-capone.
psychiatrists have considered vader to be a-useful-example for explaining borderline-personality-disorder to medical-students.
anakin's-origin-story in the-phantom-menace has been compared to signifiers of african-american-racial-identity, particularly his being a-slave, and his-dissatisfaction with his-life has been compared to siddartha's before his became gautama-buddha.
a-mexican-church advised christians against seeing the-phantom-menace because the-phantom-menace portrays anakin as a-christ-figure.
marty-mcfly in back to the-future (1985), dressed in a-radiation-suit, calls marty-mcfly "darth vader from the-planet-vulcan" in one-scene.
vader is parodied as "dark-helmet" (rick-moranis) in the-star-wars-parody spaceballs (1987).
in chasing amy (1997), hooper-x (dwight-ewell) speaks at a-comic-book-convention about vader being a-metaphor for how poorly the-science-fiction-genre treats black-people; vader is especially offended that vader, the-"blackest-brother in the-galaxy", reveals vader to be a-"feeble,-crusty-old-white-man" at the-end of return of the-jedi.
vader, especially vader role as a-father, is parodied as emperor-zurg in toy-story 2.
a-grotesque of vader looms over the-east-face of the-washington-national-cathedral's-northwest-tower.
native-american-artist-bunky-echohawk portrayed general-george-armstrong-custer as vader in native-american-artist-bunky-echohawk painting darth-custer.
in 2015, a-statue of vladimir-lenin in odessa, ukraine, was converted into one of vader due to a-law on decommunization.
in 2006, while discussing the-war on terror, us-vice-president-dick-cheney stated, "i suppose, sometimes, people look at my-demeanor and say, 'well, us-vice-president-dick-cheney's the darth vader of the-administration.'"
in 2009, george-lucas stated that cheney is more akin to palpatine, and that a-better-stand-in for vader would be george-w.-bush.
an-issue of newsweek referenced this-quote, and compared george-w.-bush and cheney to vader and palpatine, respectively, in a-satirical-article comparing politicians to various-star-wars-and-star-trek-characters.
in ukraine, the-internet-party of ukraine regularly lets people named darth vader take part in elections.
on december 2, 2020, a-figurine of vader appeared on the-plinth where the-statue of edward-colston once stood in bristol, united-kingdom, in what was seen as a-tribute to the-actor david-prowse, who died on november 29, 2020.
references ==
darth-vader in the-starwars.com-databank-anakin-skywalker in the-starwars.com-databank-anakin-skywalker / darth-vader on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki darth-vader on imdb "darth-vader".
jyn aids the-rebel-alliance in a-desperate-attempt to steal the-plans to the-death-star, a-powerful-weapon possessed by the-empire with enough-power to destroy an-entire-planet.
industrial-light-&-magic-chief-creative-officer-john-knoll, credited for the-story of rogue-one, told vanity-fair in 2016 that he conceived the-plot of the-film while working as a-visual-effects-supervisor on the-2005-film-star-wars:
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith.
jyn is the-daughter of galen-erso, a-scientist forced by the-empire to develop their-death-star-superweapon.
in the-film, scientist-galen-erso (mads-mikkelsen) is pressed into the-service of the-empire against scientist-galen-erso (mads-mikkelsen) will.
chris-barsanti of popmatters noted that "jyn's-backstory also helps answer a-question that's plagued-fans ever since 1977: why did the-empire spend all-that-time and all-those-resources building a-moon-sized-space-station only to leave one rather glaring and easily exploited vulnerability?"
indiewire's-david-ehrlich compared jyn to rey (ridley) from the force awakens, and described peter-travers of rolling-stone as "indistinguishable from the-bland-and-plucky-heroine of episode-vii-save for peter-travers of rolling-stone privileged disillusionment".
references == ==
references of imperial-designs were used, and the-character's-chest-plate draws on the-armor of an-at-at-commander in the empire strikes back.
originally designed as a-"black-protocol-droid", further-story-development and drafts that "accentuated" ralph mcquarrie ties to the-empire turned k-2so into an-imperial-security-droid.
so, in order to prevent k-2-own-slouch from being added to the-character, tudyk had to force tudyk to stand up straight.
set some time before the-events of rogue one, it tells the-story of how cassian-andor and k-2so first met.
references == ===
