"journey to star-wars" is a-disney/lucasfilm-publishing-initiative that connects the star-wars sequel films with previous-film-installments in the-franchise.
the-force-awakens was announced in march 2015.
the-first-novels, including star-wars: aftermath and star-wars: lost-stars, were published in september 2015, prior to the-release of the force awakens in december 2015.
three-novels and a-comic-miniseries related to the-2017-film star-wars: the-last-jedi were announced in april 2017.
a-large-number of licensed-novels and comics were produced between the-originating-1977-film star-wars and the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, set in what was dubbed the expanded universe.
in april 2014, with the-force awakens in production, disney rebranded this-body of work as star-wars-legends and declared disney non-canon to the-franchise.
journey to star-wars : the-force awakens", consisting of "at-least"-20-novels and comic-books from multiple-publishers, was announced in march 2015.
the-first-novels, including aftermath by chuck-wendig and lost-stars by claudia-gray, were published in september 2015, prior to the-release of the force awakens in december 2015.
at the-october-2015-new-york-comic-con-panel for the-journey to star-wars: the-force awakens, more-works were announced that would be released from november 2015 through summer-2017.three-novels and a-comic-book-miniseries related to the-second-sequel-film, the-last-jedi, were announced at the star-wars celebration in april 2017.
the-last-jedi at the-san-diego-comic-con in july 2017.on star wars day, may 4, 2019, lucasfilm released the-roadmap of the-last-jedi at the-san-diego-comic-con in july 2017.on star wars day, may 4, 2019
smuggler's-run: a-han-solo & chewbacca-adventure (september 2015) by greg-rucka, set between the-films star-wars (1977) and
the-weapon of a-jedi: a-luke-skywalker-adventure (september 2015) by jason-fry, set between star-wars and
the-book also features the-character nien-nunb and introduces the-droid-pz-4co.
the-four-part-limited-series shattered-empire was published by marvel-comics between september 9 and october 21, 2015, and is set immediately after return of the-jedi.
star-wars: poe-dameron (marvel, april 2016), written by charles-soule and illustrated by phil-noto.
set immediately before the-force awakens, marvel's poe dameron centers on the-resistance-x-wing-fighter-pilot portrayed in the-film by oscar-isaac.
it explores poe's-adventures before the-start of the-film by oscar-isaac, and includes appearances by poe's-astromech-droid bb-8, new-x-wing-pilots and a-new-villain from the-first-order positioned as poe's-nemesis and whom charles-soule describes as "fresh and cool".
star-wars: captain-phasma (marvel, september 2017), written by kelly-thompson and illustrated by marco-checchetto.
the-four-issue-miniseries follows the-character between the-events of the force awakens and the-last-jedi.
star-wars-adventures (idw-publishing, september 2017), an-ongoing-anthology-series aimed at young-readers.
star-wars: allegiance (marvel, october 2019), written by ethan-sacks and illustrated by luke-ross.
the-rise of kylo-ren (marvel, november 2019–march 2020), written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
new-edition (dk-publishing, october 2019) by adam-bray, cole-horton, tricia-barr, and ryder-windham; with a-foreword by anthony-daniels
the-rise of skywalker-official-guide (dk-publishing, december 2019) by matt-jones
journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki journey to star-wars:
the-film features the-first-posthumous-film-performance by fisher, who died in december 2016, and the-film is dedicated to the-last-jedi.
the-last-jedi is part of a-new-trilogy of films announced after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
a-number of scenes were filmed at skellig-michael in ireland during pre-production in september 2015, but principal-photography began at pinewood-studios in england in february 2016 and wrapped that july.
the-last-jedi premiered in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-sequel, the-rise of skywalker, was released in december 2019.
on canto-bight, the-character mistakes bb-8 for a-slot-machine.
joonas-suotamo appears as chewbacca, taking over the-role from peter-mayhew after previously serving as peter-mayhew body double in the force awakens.
jimmy-vee portrays r2-d2, taking over the-role from kenny-baker, who died in august 2016.
production ==
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
j.-j.-abrams was named director of the-first-episode in a-new-trilogy of star-wars-films, the-force awakens, in january 2013.
director-rian-johnson confirmed in august that director-rian-johnson would direct episode viii.in january 2015, disney-ceo-bob-iger stated that episode viii would be released in 2017.
in december, lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy said that the-film had not been mapped out and that abrams was collaborating with johnson, who would in turn work with (then)
additionally, abrams served as an-executive-producer along with tom-karnowski and jason-mcgatlin.
in january 2017, lucasfilm announced the-title for episode-viii as star-wars: the-last-jedi.
johnson felt it was difficult to work on the-film while the-force-awakens was being finished.
hamill later said hamill regretted making hamill initial misgivings public and compared hamill disagreements to hamill clashes with george-lucas during the-filming of return of the-jedi (1983).
in september 2015, disney shortlisted the-female-cast-members to gina-rodriguez, tatiana-maslany, and olivia-cooke.
joaquin-phoenix was also courted to portray the-role of dj, but would end up passing on the-offer.
in october 2015, gugu-mbatha-raw was rumored to have been cast in the-film.
in february 2016, at the-start of filming, it was confirmed that laura-dern and kelly-marie-tran had been cast in undisclosed-roles.
in april 2017, at the-star-wars-celebration-orlando, lucasfilm announced that tran would play resistance-maintenance-worker-rose-tico, which johnson described as the-film's-largest-new-role.
second-unit-photography began during pre-production at skellig-michael in ireland on september 14, 2015, due to the-difficulties of filming at that-location during other-seasons.
in september 2015, del-toro revealed that principal-photography would begin in march 2016.
the-production began work on the-007-stage at pinewood-studios on november 15, 2015.
in january 2016, production of episode-viii was delayed until february due to script-rewrites.
on february 10, 2016, disney-ceo-bob-iger confirmed that principal-photography had begun under the-working-title space-bear.
additional-filming took place in dubrovnik, croatia from march 9 to 16, as well as in ireland in
principal-photography wrapped on july 22, 2016, though as of early-september, nyong'o had not filmed nyong'o scenes.
in february 2017, it was announced that sequences from the-film were shot in imax.
for yoda's-appearance in the-film as a-force-ghost, the-character was created using puppetry, as was done in the-original-star-wars-trilogy (as opposed to computer-generated-imagery, which was used to create yoda in most of the-prequel-trilogy).
in july 2013, kennedy confirmed at the-star-wars-celebration-europe that john-williams would return to score the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
john-williams confirmed john-williams assignment for the-last-jedi at a-tanglewood-concert in august 2016, stating john-williams would begin recording the-score "off and on" in december 2016 until march or april 2017.
on february 21, 2017, it was confirmed that recording was underway, with both-john-williams and william-ross conducting the-sessions.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 15, 2017.
on september 19, 2017, australia-post released a-set of stamp-packs.
on october 12, royal-mail released a-set of eight-promotional-postage-stamps designed by malcolm-tween.
as with the force awakens, there is no-official-tie-in-game for the-last-jedi, in favor of integrating content from the-film into other-star-wars-video-games, including star-wars-battlefront-ii, which introduced various-content from the-film, during the-game's-first-"season".
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-shrine-auditorium in los-angeles on december 9, 2017, and was released in the-united-states on december 15.
the-film was originally scheduled to be released in the-united-states on may 26; however, the-film was pushed back to december 15 to avoid competition with pirates of the-caribbean: dead-men tell no-tales (2017).
anywhere on march 13, 2018, with an-ultra-hd-blu-ray, blu-ray, and dvd-physical-release on march 27.
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the-last-jedi grossed $620.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $712.5 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.333 billion.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale in the-united-states on october 9, 2017, and as with the-force-awakens and rogue one, ticket-service-sites such as fandango had ticket-service-sites such as fandango servers crash due to heavy-traffic and demand.
in the-united-states and canada, industry-tracking had the-last-jedi grossing around $200 million from 4,232-theaters in the-last-jedi opening weekend.
in the-film first two days of release the-film made $60.8 million from 48-markets.
by the-end of the-weekend, the-film made $230 million outside the-united-states and canada.
on the-film second weekend, the-film grossed $76.1 million outside the-united-states and canada-canada and became the-fourth-highest-grossing-film of the-year in europe.
as of january 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada-canada are the-united-kingdom ($109.3 million), germany ($79.8 million), france ($63.5 million), japan ($60.8 million), and australia ($43.5-million).the-film had a-$28.7-million-opening-weekend in china.
the-film grossed $910,000 in the-film third weekend, dropping to ninth-place at the-chinese-box-office, overshadowed by new-releases including bollywood-film-secret-superstar (2017), hollywood films
metacritic-analysis found the-film was the-25th-most-mentioned-film on "best of the-year" film-rankings and the-22nd-most mentioned on "best of the-decade" film-rankings.
matt-zoller-seitz of rogerebert.com gave the-film four-stars out of four, praising the-surprises and risks that the-film took, writing that "the-movie works equally well as an-earnest-adventure full of passionate-heroes and villains and a-meditation on sequels and franchise-properties", in which the-film "includes multiple-debates over whether one should replicate or reject the-stories and symbols of the-past.
" writing for rolling-stone, peter-travers gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-cast and the-direction, and the-film "ranks with the-very-best-star-wars-epics (even-the-pinnacle that is the empire strikes back) by pointing the-way ahead to a-next-generation of skywalkers".
richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-stars out of four, praising the-action-sequences and humor, said that the-film "doesn't pack quite-the-same-emotional-punch [as the-force awakens] and the-film lags a bit in the-second-half,
will gompertz, arts-editor of bbc-news, gave the-film four-stars out of five, writing "rian-johnson [...] has not ruined your-christmas with a-turkey.
creator of the-franchise george-lucas, who was not involved with the-film's-production, described the-last-jedi as "beautifully made" shortly after the-last-jedi release.
conversely, richard-brody of the-new-yorker wrote that the-film "comes off as a-work that's ironed out, flattened down, appallingly purified."
kate-taylor of the-globe and mail gave the-film two-stars out of four, saying the-film suffered from too-many-new-additions, and writing the-film that "seeks to uphold a-giant-cultural-legacy, this-unfolding-trilogy struggles to maintain a-balance that often seems just out of reach."
owen-gleiberman of variety criticized the-film for being too derivative of the-past-movies by saying that "it's now repeating things that have already been repeated", with such-attempts by having a-"mood-and-darkening-design of the empire strikes back", making this-unfolding-trilogy becoming "an-official-monument to nostalgia."
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-film an-average-grade of "a" on an a+ to f-scale, and those at posttrak gave the-film an-89%-overall-positive-score, a-79%-"definite-recommend", and a-rare-five-star-rating.
at rotten-tomatoes, 42% of users rated the-film 3.5-stars or higher out of 5, while at metacritic, the-average-user-score is 4.2 out of 10.
in 2019, a-rotten-tomatoes-spokesperson said the-film had been "seriously targeted" by a-review-bombing-campaign.
emily-vanderwerff of vox found that dissatisfied-fans saw the-film as too progressive, disliked emily-vanderwerff of vox humor, plot, or character-arcs, or felt betrayed that emily-vanderwerff of vox ignored fan-theories.
the-rise of skywalker, the-final-installment of the-sequel-trilogy, was released on december 20, 2019.
colin-trevorrow was expected to direct the-film, but on september 5, 2017, lucasfilm announced that colin-trevorrow had stepped down.
a week later, lucasfilm announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct the-film and co-write lucasfilm with chris-terrio.
c-3po, r2-d2, and the-player are sent by the-rebellion to tatooine to shut down production at an-imperial-droid-factory.
the-game was developed by lucas-learning, which was originally created to produce consumer-products but was re-imagined as a-developer of direct-to-school products in the-fall of 1998.
the-game marked george-lucas'-first-foray into the-edutainment-market.
the-game was initially conceived by project-leader, collette-michaud, who pitched a-game where players could design their-own-star-wars-droid and watch their-move.
the-team made a-concerted-effort to make the-game equally appealing to all-children; recent-research had shown that children liked interactive-software and to "make children own story," so the-team wanted the-program to encourage learning about math, science, and computers.
the-development-team consulted with both-a-kid-advisory-group and subject-matter-experts to make the-game appealing to young-players and scientifically accurate.
the-game uses audio-tracks similar to those from the-film-series and includes clips from the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
the-game uses the-same-first-person-shooter-engine as many-other-contemporary-lucasarts'-titles.
the-game was built using a-modified-version of the-jedi-game-engine which was developed for lucasarts'-star-wars: jedi-knight, with changes to ensure that the-physics-engine would be realistic.
while the-developers planned a-"luxurious"-development-schedule which would have culminated in the-game's-release in christmas 1998, the-marketing-department thought the-game should be released on labor-day instead.
a-demo of the-game premiered at the-1998-macworld-expo.
in june 1998, the-washington-times reported that a-demo of the-game premiered at the-1998-macworld-expo was scheduled for release (for both-macintosh and pc) in september of that-year.
ultimately, a-demo of the-game premiered at the-1998-macworld-expo missed the-labor-day-deadline and was released on 21-october 1998.
a-demo of the-game premiered at the-1998-macworld-expo was directly made available to schools, along with other-edutainment-titles from lucas-learning.
the-game was marketed and packaged as an-entertainment-title, and was advertised in gaming-magazines and family-pc.the-developers'-original-claim that the-game blurred the-line between entertainment and education presented difficulties for marketers as marketers had to decide whether to place
the-game on "game" or "education"-shelves.
in march 1999, the-game was "currently available wherever software is sold."
by june, however, the-game was noted as being sold at two-store-specialty-groups.
computer-shopper noted that while the-game was an-exploitation of the-star-wars-brand, computer-shopper used the-association to ensure the-"productive"-game received an-audience.
similarly, daily-record wrote that the-title was "yet another spin off from the-incredible-marketing-hype" of the-upcoming-movie, but praised the-game for the-title imagination, magic, and 3d environments.
the-washington-times thought the-game would appeal to all-fans of the-star-wars sequel trilogy.
daily-herald said the-game had a-broader-appeal than the-computer-programming-video-game the-robot-club.
knight-ridder said the-game offered an-opportunity for parents and children to work together to build robots and solve missions, in a-method similar to the-tradition of building soap-box-derby-racers, and praised its-slick-graphics.
the-washington-post thought the-game was a-worthy-piece of kidware.
kidsworld said the-game was "slow and jerky" on a-133-pentium, and recommended at-least-a-166-pentium, or above.
computer-gaming-world gave the-game 4/5-stars, writing as a-minor-criticism that, while the-game features millions of possible-robots, only a select few are useful in the-game.
pc-magazine praised the-game for pc-magazine ability to make learning-fun.
lisa-karen-savignano of allgame wrote that the-game successfully combined puzzle-solving, education and action into an-enjoyable-title.
pc-accelerator thought the-game proved that "educational-game" was an-oxymoron and suggested that people would have been more interested in prequel-games.
the-game was included in national-association for gifted-children-magazine's-parenting for high-potential-1999-list of favorite-holiday-educational-toys, and commented that the-game sufficiently challenges young-players.
in january 1999, software-industry-report noted that the-game was a-popular-title on the-mac.
playthings, in june 1999, noted that the-game was selling "robustly" at $30.
from october 1998 to march 1999, the-game received seven-awards, including the-bafta-interactive-entertainment-award and two-new-media-invision-awards, and was "singled out by several-prominent-educational-software-newsletters, magazines and web-sites".
by may 1999, the-game had received two-more-awards.
the-game was the-highest-rated-science-software-title from 1999 to 2000.
while noting that they had previously never considered including educational-software in they list, the-game was featured in parenting for high-potential.
droidworks-homepage-postmortem of the-game
as the-film progresses, anakin leaves tatooine to begin anakin jedi training.
a-new-hope where he is played by harrison-ford.
in december 2019, after the-release of the-rise of skywalker, matt-martin of the-lucasfilm-star-wars-story-group stated that palpatine's-involvement in anakin's-birth is not confirmed.
the-following-characters are exclusive to what is now retroactively known as the-legends-brand since april 2014, and non-canonical to any-and-all-star-wars-material produced under the-ownership of the-walt-disney-company.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.following the-events of the-original-film-trilogy, leia and han marry and have children, and luke does likewise several years after leia and han do.
jacen turns to boba-fett to train jacen.
on october 1, 1995, nancy-richardson started the-junior-jedi-knights-series with the-golden-globe starring anakin and his-best-friend tahiri-veila.
anakin is now a-teenager, who often spends time alone thinking about the-role of the-force, and would get into arguments with anakin brother jacen on the-ways of a-jedi and the-force.
: ruin by michael-a.-stackpole published 1 february 2000 and 1 june 2000, respectively, and is the-main-focus of the-books-edge of victory: conquest and edge of victory:
rebirth by greg-keyes published april 1, 2001 and august 1, 2001, respectively.
the-character was voted the 84th top star wars character by ign.
star-wars: union on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki star-wars rebels is an-american-3d-animated-science-fiction-television-series produced by lucasfilm-animation and set in the star-wars galaxy five years before a-new-hope.
the-series premiered as a-one-hour-television-film, spark of rebellion, on october 3, 2014, on disney-channel prior to the-premiere of the-series on october 13 on disney-xd.
the-third-season premiered on september 24, 2016, with the-television-film, steps into shadow.
the-fourth-and-final-season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore.
the fourth and final season premiered on october 16, 2017, with another-one-hour-television-film, heroes of mandalore-final-episode aired on march 5, filoni served as executive-producers of season one.
greg-weisman left its-final-episode aired on march 5, 2018.dave-filoni, simon-kinberg and greg-weisman after season one.
filoni was also the-supervising-director for the-first-two-seasons, a-role filoni relinquished after accepting a-promotion that expanded filoni creative role into overseeing all-lucasfilm-animation-projects; filoni chose justin-ridge to succeed filoni for season three.
filoni assumed the-role back for the-fourth-season.
the-first-two-episodes, titled spark of rebellion, premiered on october 3, 2014, on disney-channels worldwide and on family-channel in canada.
in australia, the series premiered on october 17 on disney-xd.
the-siege of lothal premiered on june 28, 2015, and the-second-season debuted on october 18.
in canada, the series premiered on october 19 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd.
however, due to dhx-media losing the-rights to disney-content, in canada, the-series premiered on october 19 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd was later moved to disney-channel.
the second season premiered on november 7, and in canada, the-series premiered on october 19 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd was moved to disney-channel on december 1.in
the-middle-east and africa, spark of rebellion premiered on october 11 and the-series debuted on october 18 on the-dhx-owned-disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on october 10, followed the-official-season-premiere on october 17.
in southeast-asia, spark of rebellion premiered on disney-xd on october 4 and the-series officially started on november 29.
siege of lothal premiered on october 3 on disney-xd-and-disney-channel, and the-second-season was released on october 24.
in the-united-kingdom and ireland, the-series debuted on october 16 on disney-xd.
siege of lothal premiered on july 18, 2015, followed by the-second-season-debut on october 17.
spark of rebellion was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd in the-us at all-retailers on october 14, 2014.
one of star-wars-rebels was released by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on dvd and blu-ray on september 1, 2015, in america, and in germany on september 10, 2015.
the complete season four is announced to be released on dvd and blu-ray on november 15, 2018, in germany, and july 31, 2018, in america.
the-series is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
on the-review-aggregation-website rotten-tomatoes, the-first-season has received a-92%-positive-score, based on 12-reviews, and seasons 2, 3 and 4 have received a-100%-score based on 6-reviews for season 2, 6-reviews for season 3, and 10-reviews for season 4, with an-average-rating of 8.17/10 for season 1, 7.38/10 for season 2, 9/10 for season 3, and 9.22/10 for season 4.
the-voice of freddie-prinze-jr. as kanan-jarrus can also heard in the-2019-film star-wars as one of the-voices of jedi past who provide rey with encouragement to defeat emperor-palpatine.
on september 2, 2014, del-rey-books published star-wars: a-new-dawn, a-prequel-novel by john-jackson-miller telling the-story of how kanan and hera met (set about six years before the-series).
a-sequel to thrawn, titled thrawn: alliances, was released on july 24, 2018.
another-grand-admiral-thrawn-novel, thrawn: treason was released on july 23, 2019.
from april 1, 2015, through march 16, 2016, marvel-comics published a-12-issue-comic-series, titled kanan, and set during the-events of the-first-season.
the-first-issue was released on february 14, 2018, with new-issues being released over the-following-five-months.
the-second-part appeared in the-next-issue, which was released on march 28, 2018.
a-side-scrolling-run-and-gun-game based on the-show's-first-season, titled star wars rebels: recon-missions, was released by disney-mobile on ios, android, and windows-store in early 2015, before being discontinued on july 28, 2016, due to the-limitations of the-support-team.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977)
from star-wars to jedi:
star-wars-locations and their-gps-coordinates---article featuring every-filming-location, lat/long-coordinates and scene comparisons star-wars-locations - fan site devoted to star-wars filming locations star-wars filming locations category on wookieepedia star-wars filming locations category on 501st-legion-spanish-garrison
george-lucas's-filming-locations on movie-locations.com-"hostage-crisis" first aired on march 20, 2009 on cartoon-network.
during development of the empire strikes back, lucas initially conceived a-planet of clones, which is why the-clone-wars was mentioned for the-first-time in the-original-star-wars (1977)-film.
in writing the empire strikes back, leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war, but this-concept was not featured in the-film.
george-lucas later came up with this-concept.
george-lucas intended for the-prequel-trilogy to depict the-evolution of the-galaxy's-fighting-forces, and the-clone-troopers were the-step after flawed-battle-droids.
lucas expressed a-desire for individualized-trooper-armor from the-beginning of art-development for revenge of the-sith.
the clone trooper designs "progressed" closer toward the-stormtrooper-designs, and the-film included variant-designs similar to the-sandtrooper, scout-trooper, and snowtrooper-armor of the-original-trilogy.
the-designs of clone-trooper in snow and cold-weather-gear, seen in season one of the-clone-wars, are heavily inspired by early-concept and costume by ralph-mcquarrie, joe-johnston, and john-mollo for the empire strikes back.
the-coruscant-guard hunt jedi fugitive ahsoka-tano when jedi fugitive ahsoka-tano is framed for the-bombing of the-jedi-temple and for murder in season five, and the-coruscant-guard search for arc-trooper-fives when commander-fox is framed for an-assassination-attempt on supreme-chancellor-palpatine in season six.
in season seven, a-skirmish broke out onboard former-jedi-padawan-ahsoka-tano's-venator-class-star-destroyer during the-final-days of the-clone-wars when clone-troopers of the-332nd-company and coruscant-guard received order 66 from supreme-chancellor-sheev-palpatine.
appo later appears in season four of the-clone-wars-television-series as a-sergeant in the-501st serving under clone-captain-rex.
in season six, during a-battle over ringo-vinda, fives and the-501st are winning the-battle until fellow-clone-tup mysteriously executes jedi-general-tiplar, forcing the-501st to retreat.
in season four' battle of umbara, jesse, like fives comes to consider general-pong-krell to be ruthless and reckless (mainly over the-casualty-numbers).
in season seven, general-pong-krell takes part in the-siege of mandalore, during which general-pong-krell is captured and interrogated by maul, and later attempts to execute ahsoka-tano when order 66 is issued.
in season six, kix aids fives, a-fugitive because a-medic serving in the-501st
in july 2020, echo was announced that clone-force 99 would be receiving clone-force 99 own spin-off series in 2021 on disney+
later appears in season one of the-clone-wars-television-series alongside aayla.
graeme-mcmillan of the-hollywood-reporter felt the-decision to make an-army of clones is a-"softening of the-star-wars'-own-mythology", though the-article later corrected that not-all-troopers in the-franchise were clones.
the-force-unleashed, released in september 2008, and september 2008 sequel
,-star-wars: the-force-unleashed-ii, released in october 2010, as well as two-corresponding-tie-in-novels, action-figures, a-comic-book, a-reference-book, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and a-book on the-making of the-game.
after the-walt-disney-company acquired lucasfilm in 2012 and began production of the-star-wars sequel-trilogy, the-unleashed-project, along with all-other-star-wars expanded universe-works, was discarded from the-current-star-wars-canon and reassigned as part of the-legends-non-canonical-stories on april 25, 2014, preventing the-video-game-series representing production of the-star-wars from continuing further past unleashed-ii.
episode-iv – a-new-hope
the-game explores themes of redemption and self-sacrifice; aside from hunting jedi, starkiller helps build the-rebel-alliance on darth-vader's-orders, who plots to overthrow the-emperor, but eventually comes to truly believe in the-rebel-cause and sacrifices the-emperor to save the-rebel-alliance's leaders from the-empire, who honor the-emperor by adopting the-emperor family's crest as his-family-symbol.
the-force-unleashed-game was released in north-america on september 16, 2008, and in australia and southeast-asia on september 17, 2008, and was released in europe on september 19, 2008.
a-sequel was released on october 26, 2010.
this time, the-player assumes the-role of a-clone of starkiller that, upon escaping from darth-vader's-clutches, embarks on a-quest to find darth-vader's-identity and the original starkiller's love interest, juno-eclipse, but is soon forced to join the-rebel-alliance and help the-rebel-alliance bring down the-empire and vader, who has captured juno to lure the-clone back to darth vader's.
sean-williams'-novelization was released in the-united-states on august 19, 2008.
williams most enjoyed developing the-character of juno-eclipse, exploring the-"feminine"-side of the-force unleashed in a-way the-video-game does not.
witwer remained involved with the-star-wars-franchise, voicing darth-maul in the-animated-series star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels and the-film solo:
lucas began writing the-script before production of attack of the-clones ended, citing that lucas wanted to end the-trilogy to have similar-aspects of a-romantic-tragedy, thus building into darth-vader's-state at the-beginning of the-next-film.
production of revenge of the-sith started in september 2003, and filming took place in australia with additional-locations in thailand, switzerland, china, italy and the-united-kingdom.
the-film also holds the-record for the highest opening-day gross on a-thursday, making $50 million.
sound-engineer-matthew-wood provides the-voice of general-grievous, the-fearsome-cyborg-commander of the-separatists'-droid-army; temuera-morrison portrays commander-cody and the-rest of the-clone-troopers; bruce-spence portrays tion-medon, local-administrator of utapau; jeremy-bulloch (who played boba-fett in the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi) appears as captain-colton, the-pilot of the-rebel-blockade-runner-tantive-iv; genevieve-o'reilly portrays senator-mon-mothma, though genevieve-o'reilly scene was ultimately cut.
production ==
lucas stated that lucas conceived the-star-wars-saga's-story in the-form of a-plot-outline in 1973.
however, lucas later clarified that, at the-time of the-saga's-conception, lucas had not fully realized the-details —only major plot points.
lucas began working on the-screenplay for episode-iii before the-previous-film, attack of the-clones, was released, proposing to concept artists that the-film would open with a-montage of seven-battles on seven-planets.
in the-secret-history of star-wars, michael-kaminski surmises that lucas found flaws with anakin's-fall to the-dark-side and radically reorganized the-plot.
for example, instead of opening the-film with a-montage of clone-war-battles, lucas decided to focus on anakin, ending the-first-act with lucas killing count-dooku, an-action that signals lucas turn to the-dark-side.
a-significant-number of fans speculated online about the-episode-title for the-film with rumored-titles including rise of the-empire,
the-creeping-fear (which was also named as the-film's-title on the-official-website on april fool's 2004), and birth of the-empire.
eventually, revenge of the-sith also became a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm.
a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm is a-reference to revenge of the-jedi, the-original-title of return of the-jedi; george-lucas changed a-title guessed by fans that george-lucas would indirectly confirm scant-weeks before the-premiere of return of the-jedi, declaring that the-jedi do not seek revenge.
since george-lucas refocused the-film on anakin, george-lucas had to sacrifice certain-extraneous-plot-points relating to attack of the-clones.
george-lucas had previously promised fans that george-lucas would explain the-mystery behind the-erasure of the-planet-kamino from the-jedi-archives.
however, lucas abandoned this-plot-thread in order to devote more-time to anakin's-story, leaving the-matter unresolved on film.
lucas had originally planned to include even-more-ties to the-original-trilogy, and wrote early-drafts of the-script in which a-10-year-old-han-solo appeared on kashyyyk, but the-role was not cast or shot.
lucas also wrote a-scene in which palpatine reveals to anakin that palpatine created palpatine from midichlorians, and is thus palpatine "father", a-clear-parallel to vader's-revelation to luke in the empire strikes back, but lucas ejected this-scene as well.
another-planned-scene by lucas that was written during the-early-development of film was a-conversation between master-yoda and the-ghostly-qui-gon-jinn, with liam-neeson reprising liam-neeson role as jinn
however, another-planned-scene by lucas that was written during the-early-development of the-film was never filmed and liam-neeson was never recorded, although another-planned-scene by lucas that was written during the-early-development of the-film
neeson finally reprised the-role in an-episode of the-clone-wars in 2011.after-principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas made even-more-changes in anakin's-character, rewriting the-entire-"turn"-sequence.
lucas accomplished this-"rewrite" through editing the-principal-footage and filming new-scenes during pickups in london in 2004.
although this is still intact in the-finished-film, by revising and refilming many-scenes, lucas emphasized anakin's-desire to save padmé from death.
over a-period of months, lucas would approve hundreds of designs that would eventually appear in the-film.
lucas would later rewrite entire-scenes and action-sequences to correspond to certain-designs lucas had chosen.
ben-burtt would edit these-scenes with lucas in order to pre-visualize what the-film would look like before the-scenes were filmed.
later, the-pre-visualization-and-art-department-designs were sent to the-pre-visualization-department to begin "bringing the-film out of the-concept-phase" by building-sets, props and costumes.
although the-first-scene filmed was the-final-scene to appear in the-film (shot during the-filming of attack of the-clones in 2000), the-first-bulk of principal-photography on the-film occurred from june 30, 2003 to september 17, 2003, with additional-photography occurring at shepperton-studios in surrey and elstree-studios in hertfordshire from august 2004 to january 31, 2005.
while shooting key-dramatic-scenes, lucas would often use an-"a-camera" and "b-camera", or the-"v-technique", a-process that involves shooting with two-or-more-cameras at the-same-time in order to gain several-angles of the-same-performance.
hayden-christensen says lucas asked lucas "to bulk up and physically show the-maturity that had taken place between the-two-films.
hayden-christensen and ewan-mcgregor began rehearsing christensen and ewan-mcgregor climactic lightsaber duel long before lucas would shoot it.
as christensen recounted, it was originally intended to simply have a-"tall-guy" in the-darth-vader-costume, but after "begging and pleading" christensen persuaded lucas to have the-vader-costume used in the-same-film created specifically to fit lucas.
gary-oldman backed out of the-role rather than violate the-union's-rules.
the-post-production-department (handeled by industrial-light & magic) began work during filming and continued until weeks before the-film was released in 2005.
the-dvd-featurette within a-minute illustrated the-film required 910-artists and 70,441-man-hours to create 49-seconds of footage for the-mustafar-duel alone.
many-times-the-stars, and lucas himself, were spotted on the-webcam.
lucas himself excised all-the-scenes of a-group of senators, including padmé, bail-organa, and mon-mothma (genevieve-o'reilly), organizing an-alliance to prevent palpatine from usurping any-more-emergency-powers.
the-scene where yoda arrives on dagobah to begin yoda self-imposed exile was also removed, but is featured as an-extended-scene in the-dvd-release, although mccallum stated mccallum hopes lucas may add it to the-release if lucas releases a-six-episode-dvd-box-set.
bai-ling filmed minor-scenes for the-film playing a-senator, but bai-ling role was cut during editing.
lucas denied this, stating that the-cut had been made more than a year earlier, and that lucas had cut lucas own daughter's scenes as well.
a-music-video titled a hero falls was created for the-film's-theme, "battle of the-heroes", featuring footage from the-film and was also available on the-film's soundtrack also came with a-collectors'-dvd ,-star-wars: a-musical-journey, at no-additional-cost.
(the-1977-release of a-new-hope and the-1983-release of return of the-jedi were also released on the-same-day and month, six years apart).
most of people took advantage of an-offer to see the-film at a-nearby-cinema, arclight cinemas (formerly-the-"cinerama-dome").
a-copy of the-film leaked onto peer-to-peer file sharing networks just hours after opening in theaters.
the-film was a-time-stamped-workprint, suggesting the-film may have come from within the-industry rather than from someone who videotaped an-advance-screening.
documents filed by the-los-angeles-district-attorney allege that a-copy of the-film was taken from an-unnamed-californian-post-production-office by an-employee, who later pleaded guilty to his-charges.
a-copy of the-film was passed among seven-people until reaching an-eighth-party, who also pleaded guilty to uploading to an-unnamed-p2p-network.
lucas had stated months before the-mpaa's-decision that lucas felt the-first-star-wars-film to receive a-pg-13-rating from the-motion-picture-association of america (mpaa) should receive a-pg-13-rating, because of anakin's-final-moments and the-first-star-wars-film to receive a-pg-13-rating from the-motion-picture-association of america
the-film was released on dvd and vhs on october 31, 2005, in the-uk and ireland; on november 1, 2005, the-film was released in the-united-states and canada on dvd; and on november 3, 2005, the-film was released in australia.
the-film was also released in most-major-territories on or near the-same-day.
six-deleted-scenes were included with introductions from lucas and mccallum.
this-release was re-released in a prequel trilogy box set on november 4, 2008.the-star-wars-films were released by 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment on blu-ray on december 16, 2010, in three-different-editions.
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
anywhere on april 10, 2015.walt
disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued revenge of the-sith on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray on march 31, 2020.
on september 28, 2010, it was announced that all-six-films in the-series were to be stereo-converted to 3d. all-six-films in the-series would be re-released in chronological-order beginning with the-phantom-menace on february 10, 2012.
revenge of the-sith was originally scheduled to be re-released in 3d on october 11, 2013.
however, on january 28, 2013, lucasfilm announced that lucasfilm was postponing the-3d-release of episodes ii and iii in order to "focus 100-percent of our-efforts on star-wars:
the-premiere of the-3d-version was shown on april 17, 2015, at star-wars-celebration-anaheim.
, george-lucas brings george-lucas second star wars trilogy to a-suitably-thrilling-and-often-poignant-–-if-still-a-bit-uneven-–-conclusion."
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-film an-average-grade of "a–" on an-a+ to f-scale, the-same-score as the-previous-two-films.
most-critics have considered the-film to be the best of the-prequel-trilogy.
a.-o.-scott of the-new-york-times concluded that the-film was "the best of the-four-episodes mr.-lucas has directed", and equal to the-empire strikes back as "the-richest-and-most-challenging-movie in the-cycle".
j.r.-jones, a-chicago-reader-critic who disliked the-phantom-menace and attack of the-clones, gave the-film a-positive-review, saying that the-film had a-"relatively-thoughtful-story".
roger-ebert of the-chicago-sun-times gave the-film three-and-a-half-out-of-four-stars, writing "if [lucas] got bogged down in solemnity and theory in episode-ii:
much of the-criticism was directed towards the-dialogue, particularly-the-film's-romantic-scenes; critics claimed this demonstrated lucas's-weakness as a-writer of dialogue, a-subject with which lucas openly agreed when receiving the-lifetime-achievement-award from the-american-film-institute.
in 2012, glittering-images-art-critic camille-paglia praised the-film, comparing some of the-film scenes to works by modern-painters and calling the-film "the-greatest-work of art in recent-memory".
i had considered using japanese-anime for the-digital-art-chapter of the-book, but the-film lacked the-overwhelming-operatic-power and yes,-seriousness of lucas's-revenge of the-sith.
during the-late-2010s, the-film amassed a-cult following on social-media among young-fans who were children when the-film was released, using the-film's dialogue to create internet-memes out of nostalgia.
some-american-conservatives criticized the-film, claiming the-film had a-liberal-bias and was a-commentary on the-george-w.-bush-administration and iraq-war.
lucas defended the-film, stating that the-film's storyline was written during the-vietnam-war and was influenced by that-conflict rather than the-war in iraq.
lucas also said "the-parallels between vietnam and what we're doing in iraq now are unbelievable".
the-film was released in 115-countries.
the-film worldwide gross eventually reached $849 million—making the-film the second most financially successful film of 2005, behind harry-potter and the-goblet of fire.
the-film earned an estimated $16.91 million from 2,900-midnight-screenings in north-america upon the-film release.
in total, the-film earned a record $50 million on
the-film opening-day.
the-film was surpassed the following year by pirates of the-caribbean: dead-man's-chest, which earned $55.5 million on its-opening-day.
with only-the-may-19-earnings, the-film broke four-box-office-records:
gross-records were later surpassed by pirates of the-caribbean: dead-man's-chest on july 7, 2006, when that-movie grossed $55.5 million on the-matrix-opening-day, and the-matrix-midnight-screening-gross was broken by the-dark-knight on july 18, 2008 with $18.5 million.
in eight-days run in american-theaters on october 20, 2005, finishing with a-total-gross of $380,270,577.
following the-release of revenge of the-sith—the completion of the-original-and-prequel-star-wars-series—on june 9, 2005, george-lucas was presented with the-33rd-american-film-institute-lifetime-achievement-award.
the-33rd-american-film-institute-lifetime-achievement-award honored george-lucas "astonishing-contributions to the-art and technology of filmmaking, as well as the-impact of the-epic-star-wars-series".
as did every-film of the-original-trilogy, the-film won the-saturn-award for best-science-fiction-film.
the-film was nominated for ten-saturn-awards overall, including best-director and best writing for lucas, best-actor for christensen, best-actress for natalie-portman and best-supporting-actor for ian-mcdiarmid.
of the-three-star-wars-prequels, the-film received the-fewest-golden-raspberry-awards-nominations: only one, for christensen as worst-supporting-actor, which christensen won.
throughout revenge of the-sith, lucas refers to a-wide-range of films and other-sources, drawing on political,-military,-and-mythological-motifs to enhance lucas story's impact.
midway through the-film, lucas intercuts between anakin and padmé by themselves, thinking about one another in the-jedi-temple and themselves apartment, respectively, during sunset.
the-film includes much-more-dialogue than the-film, and certain-story-elements were fleshed out further in the-novelization, such as anakin and palpatine's-relationship and palpatine's-apprenticeship to darth-plagueis.
a-video-game based on the-film was released on may 5, 2005, two weeks before the-film.
a-video-game based on the-film followed the-film's storyline for the-most-part, integrating scenes from the-film.
the-style of the-game was mostly-lightsaber-combat and fighting as obi-wan or anakin.
the-style of the-game also has a-form of multiplayer-mode, which includes both-"vs" and "cooperative"-mode.
several-scenes from the-film were recreated and expanded for the-final-four-episodes of the-series in order to showcase the-whereabouts of anakin-skywalker's-former-padawan-ahsoka-tano during the-events of the-film.
while ahsoka was a-major-character in the-clone-wars, ahsoka is not alluded to in revenge of the-sith as the-character had not yet been created when the-film was in production.
the-eighth-star-trek-series features a-retired-jean-luc-picard who has been deeply affected by the-death of data in the-film star-trek: nemesis (2002) and the-destruction of the-planet romulus in the-film star-trek (2009).
stewart had previously said stewart would not return to the-franchise after nemesis.
picard premiered on cbs all-access on january 23, 2020, and picard first season ran for 10-episodes until march 26.
the second is in production and is set to debut on paramount+
the-companion-series star-trek begins 20 years after jean-luc-picard's-last-appearance in star-trek: nemesis (2002), and finds the-character deeply affected by the-death of data in that-film as well as the-destruction of the-planet romulus in the-film star-trek (2009).
season 1 (2020) === ===
season 2 ===
production == ===
in june 2018, after becoming sole-showrunner of the-series star-trek:-discovery, alex-kurtzman signed a-five-year-overall-deal with cbs-television-studios to expand the star-trek franchise beyond discovery to several-new-series, miniseries, and animated-series.
when cbs had first approached kurtzman and akiva-goldsman (who worked on the-first-season of discovery) about making more-star-trek-series, alex kurtzman believed jean-luc-picard was the-greatest-star-trek-captain and included a-series featuring the-character on jean-luc-picard wish list, despite patrick-stewart having said that jean-luc-picard did not want to return to the-star-trek-franchise beyond discovery.
while developing ideas for the-short-form-companion-series star-trek: short-treks, alex-kurtzman and alex-kurtzman team developed a-story that would have featured nichelle-nichols reprising patrick-stewart original star-trek role of uhura.
after developing the-older-a-young-picard-story, the-team decided that the-team had enough to pitch a-full-series focused on the-character to stewart; kurtzman and goldsman contacted the-actor before january 2018 to discuss this-idea, and met with the-actor along with discovery-writer-kirsten-beyer at the-beverly-wilshire-hotel.
stewart asked to meet with the-group again in march 2018, where stewart expressed stewart approval of the-group pitch.
stewart explained that after last portraying the-character in the-2002-film-star-trek: nemesis, stewart felt stewart role in the-franchise "had run its-natural-course", but in the-years since stewart was humbled by stories of the-impact the-character had on the-lives of fans and so was now happy "to research and experience
in addition to starring, stewart was also set to executive produce the-series alongside kurtzman, goldsman, chabon, discovery's-james-duff, heather-kadin of kurtzman's production company secret-hideout, and rod-roddenberry (the-son of star-trek-creator-gene-roddenberry) and trevor-roth of roddenberry-entertainment.
kadin revealed in october that the-series was intended to be ongoing rather than a-limited-miniseries, and said that kadin release dates would not overlap with discovery or any-other-new-star-trek-series.
cbs-cco-david-nevins confirmed in december 2018 that the-series was intended to debut on cbs
stewart revealed a month later that the-series would consist of 10-episodes, and reiterated that the-intention was for the-intention to continue for multiple-seasons, adding in february that "we are set up for possibly-three-years of this-show".
a production listing in march gave the-series-title as star-trek: destiny, which cbs had trademarked in 2018.
in late-june, chabon was named sole showrunner of the-series, to work closely on the day-to-day production with kurtzman and goldsman.
a month later, the-series was scheduled to premiere in january 2020.
the-series is set 20 years after stewart's-last-appearance as picard in the-film star-trek: nemesis (2002).
kurtzman revealed that the-series would find the-character "radically altered" by the-destruction of romulus several years after the-events of nemesis, as depicted in the-film star-trek (2009), and explained that the-mandate for the-series was to make the-series "a more psychological show, a-character-study about this-man in kurtzman emeritus years".
in a-television-series, the-character must find the-character way back to roddenberry's-original-optimistic-vision for the-franchise, which kurtzman hoped would reinforce that-original-vision while allowing the-character to "go through deep-valleys".
in july 2019, goldsman said a-television-series would not be a-direct-sequel to the-next-generation and would be more character-focused than a-television-series.
stewart compared a-television-series to when stewart reprised stewart x-men role of professor-x in the-film logan (2017), where stewart was the-same-character but the-franchise's-world and tone was "blown apart".
at the-start of march 2019, santiago-cabrera and michelle-hurd were santiago-cabrera and michelle-hurd set to co-star in the-series, with santiago-cabrera being one of the-most-sought-after-actors during the-2019-television-pilot-season and choosing the-series over other-offers.
however, the-writers wanted to be respectful to longtime-fans of star-trek and felt the-writers were missing opportunities by not including certain-characters, so the-writers decided to add some-returning-guests who organically served the-new-story.
several-actors from previous-star-trek-series were announced as guest-stars for picard in july 2019, including the-next-generation's-brent-spiner as data, jonathan-del-arco as hugh, jonathan-frakes as william-riker, and marina-sirtis as deanna-troi, as well as star-trek:
in january 2020, stewart said it was stewart hope that all of the-main-cast of the-next-generation would appear on picard before the-end of the-series, while kurtzman said if michael-dorn reprised michael-dorn klingon role worf in picard michael-dorn would appear as michael-dorn did in the-next-generation and not be changed to match the-new-klingon-designs in discovery.
in april 2021, ryan, spiner, and first-season guest-star-orla-brady were revealed to be main-cast-members for the-second-season, with john-de-lancie also appearing in the-season as john-de-lancie star trek character q. ===
discovery-composer-jeff-russo was revealed to be composing the-score for picard in july 2019.
discovery-composer-jeff-russo's-relationship with star-trek began as a-fan of the-next-generation, and discovery-composer-jeff-russo asked kurtzman if kurtzman could work on picard after seeing stewart's-announcement of the-series at the las vegas star-trek convention.
the-motion-picture (1979) to connect the-story back to the-next-generation, as that-series used jerry-goldsmith's's-theme in its-main-title, while russo also references alexander-courage's-original-star-trek-theme to "evoke the-idea of star-trek in general".
a-soundtrack-album for the-first-half of the-first-season was released on february 7, 2020, followed by a-complete-soundtrack-album covering the-full-season on april 3.
in september 2020, viacomcbs announced that cbs-all-access would be expanded and rebranded as paramount+
in march 2021.
existing-episodes of picard season one will remain on paramount+
cbs also partly attributed the-premiere of the-series for the-month of january 2020 breaking the-service's-record for the-most-new-subscribers in a-month, helped by the-week of picard's-premiere being the-second-most-new-subscribers in a-single-week for the-service.
short-treks was being released in december 2018, cbs-cco-david-nevins stated that there would be more-shorts released before the-premiere of picard.
in february 2019, kurtzman said future-shorts could tie directly into series other than discovery.
the-episode, titled "children of mars", was released on january 9, 2020, and depicts the-synthetic-attack on mars from picard's-backstory but from the-perspective of two-school-children.
in september 2019, cbs announced a-new-three-issue-comic-book titled star trek: picard –-countdown, to be released beginning that november by idw-publishing.
in september 2019, cbs announced a-new-novel written by frequent-star-trek-author-una-mccormack to be published by simon & schuster in february 2020.
a-second-novel,-dark-veil by james-swallow, will be published in january 2021.
in january 2020, cbs-all-access announced that the-next-generation-actor wil-wheaton would host a-new-season of the-star-trek-aftershow
after the-series premiere on january 23, 2020, deadline-hollywood released the-first-episode of the-star-trek: picard-podcast, a-weekly-podcast sponsored by cbs-all-access and hosted by deadline's-senior-editor dominic-patten and genre-editor-geoff-boucher.
star-trek: picard at imdb star-trek: picard at tv.com star-trek: picard at memory-alpha (a star-trek wiki)
this-list of characters from the-star-wars-franchise contains only those which are considered part of the-official-star-wars-canon, as of the-changes made by lucasfilm in april 2014.
following its-acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-novels, comics, video-games and other-works produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars as star-wars legends and declared them non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise.
as such, the-list contains only-information from the-skywalker-saga-films, the-2008-animated-tv-series star-wars: the-clone-wars, and works published after april 2014.
rogue one is a-squad of rebel-soldiers formed in the-film of the-same-name that embarked on a-suicide-mission to steal the-death-star's-schematics.
list of star-wars droid characters list of star-wars legends characters list of star-wars-rebels-characters list of star-wars: knights of the-old-republic-characters list of star-wars cast members
star-wars cast members-list of star-wars books ==
the-game is a-mixture of platform, puzzle and action, and is loosely based on the-star-wars: droids-tv-series.
produced by lucasfilm and j.-j.-abrams-production-company-bad-robot-productions, and distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, the-rise of skywalker (also known as star-wars: episode-ix – is the-third-installment of the star-wars sequel-trilogy, following the force awakens (2015) and the-last-jedi (2017), and the-final-episode of the nine-part "skywalker saga".
following initial-reports that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would write the-script for episode-ix, in august 2015, colin-trevorrow was hired to direct and to write a-script with colin-trevorrow collaborator derek connolly; both ultimately retain story-credit with abrams and chris-terrio.
in september 2017, colin-trevorrow left the-project following creative-differences with producer-kathleen-kennedy, and abrams returned as director.
principal-photography began in august 2018 at pinewood-studios in england and wrapped in february 2019, with post-production completed in november 2019.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 grossed over $1.074 billion worldwide, becoming the-seventh-highest-grossing-film of 2019;
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 was the-lowest-grossing-installment of the-trilogy, the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 turned an-estimated-net-profit of $300 million.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 16, 2019, and was released in the-united-states on december 20 received three-nominations at the-92nd-academy-awards (best-original-score, best-visual-effects, and best-sound-editing) as well as three at the-73rd-british-academy-film-awards (also-best-special-visual-effects, best-original-music, and best-sound).
hassan-taj and lee-towersey perform the-role of r2-d2, while dave-chapman and brian-herring return as the-puppeteers of bb-8, and director-j.-j.-abrams also provides the-voice for d-o.-martin-wilde, anton-simpson-tidy, lukaz-leong, tom-rodgers, joe-kennard, and ashley-beck appear as the-knights of ren.
production == ===
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
in february 2016, disney-chief-executive-officer-bob-iger confirmed that pre-production on episode-ix had begun.
carrie-fisher died in december 2016.
in september 2017, lucasfilm stated that trevorrow had left the-production following creative-differences, resulting trevorrow working relationship with kathleen-kennedy to become unmanageable after failing to deliver a-satisfactory-script, despite writing several-drafts.
that same month, trevorrow was rumored as the-top-choice to replace trevorrow as director, but stated "it was never in the-plan for me to direct episode-ix", and later, j.-j.-abrams, the-director of the-force-awakens, was announced to return as the-director in episode-ix.the story team met with george-lucas before writing the-new-script to discuss the-nature of the-force.
abrams co-wrote the-new-script with chris-terrio, though trevorrow and connolly retain story-credits.
the-film was produced by abrams-co--company-bad-robot-productions, kathleen-kennedy, and michelle-rejwan.
according to terrio, the-film's-script had to include certain-narrative-beats provided by kennedy and rejwan, including the-redemption of the-character kylo-ren.
carrie-fisher, who played leia-organa, died on december 27, 2016.
in january 2017, lucasfilm stated that there were no-plans to digitally generate fisher's-performance as lucasfilm had for rogue one (2016).
in july 2018, j.-j.-abrams announced that unused-footage of fisher from the-force-awakens would be used to help complete the-story.
in july 2018, keri-russell was in talks to play a-part with some-"action-heavy-fight-scenes", and it was confirmed that billy-dee-williams would return as lando-calrissian, onscreen for the-first-time since 1983's-return of the-jedi—marking one of the-longest-intervals between portrayals of a-character by the-same-actor in american-film-history.
at the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019, it was revealed via the-film's-teaser-trailer that ian-mcdiarmid would return to portray palpatine.
since the-event was held after principal-photography wrapped, abrams was thrilled that news of ian-mcdiarmid on the-set never leaked.
kathleen-kennedy said they decided to reveal palpatine's-return ahead of the-film's-release because of the-characters playing a-larger-role in the-story, having they differentiated from baby-yoda, the-character from the-mandalorian.
oscar-isaac stated that abrams was allowing more-improvised-acting than in the-previous-two-films.
principal-photography wrapped on february 15, 2019.
footage from the-film was shown at the-walt-disney-company's-annual-shareholders-meeting on march 7, 2019.
two-weeks of reshoots took place at pinewood involving hamill, ridley, and isaac in july 2019.
roger-guyett finished post-production on november 25, 2019.
in january 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
scoring began in july 2019 with john-williams and william-ross conducting and orchestrating the-sessions over the-course of six-months.
the-official-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on december 20, 2019.
despite staying silent about many-details of the-film, abrams expressed abrams hopes that fans and general-audiences would be "satisfied".
abrams headed a-panel dedicated to the-film on april 12, 2019, during the-star-wars-celebration in chicago, where the-film's title was revealed.
from december 18, 2019, to march 11, 2020, a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the rise of kylo-ren, telling the-story of how ben-solo became kylo-ren and elaborating upon the-character's-backstory, was published by marvel-comics, written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney.
hardcover-and-audiobook-versions were released on march 19, 2020.
the-junior-novel and corresponding-audiobook are by michael-kogge and were released on april 21, 2020.
additionally, a-five-issue-marvel-comics-adaptation written by jody-houser and illustrated by will-sliney was originally planned to debut in mid-2020, but this was later canceled, making the-film the first in the-franchise not to receive a-comic-adaptation.
in december 2019, the-video-game fortnite-battle-royale released several-cosmetics featuring character-skins for rey, finn, a-sith-trooper, kylo-ren, and zorii-bliss along with a-tie-fighter-glider, a-millennium-falcon-glider (which was given to players for free from the-winterfest-event), four-emotes, and two-free-banners.
on december 14, fortnite's-publisher-epic-games released a-preview of the-film on an in-game theater screen as a-live-event.
the-film was originally planned to be released in the-united-states on may 24, 2019, before being pushed back to december 20.
the-film had the-film world premiere at the-tcl-chinese-theatre in los-angeles on december 16.
the-rise of skywalker was scheduled to be released on digital-hd on march 17, 2020, but was released four days early in the-light of the-covid-19-pandemic.
its-dvd, blu-ray, and 4k-ultra-hd-release was followed on march 31 by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment.
the-4k-version of the-film was also released in "the skywalker saga" ultra hd blu-ray box set that-same-date.
the-4k-version of the-film was released on disney+
on may 4, which is reportedly two months ahead of the-4k-version of the-film previously-scheduled-release-date.
the-rise of skywalker grossed $515.2 million in the-united-states and canada, and $558.9 million in other-territories, for a-worldwide-total of $1.074 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $300 million when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
pre-sale-tickets went on sale on october 21, 2019, and the-film sold more-tickets in pre-sale-tickets first hour of availability on atom-tickets than the-previous-record-holder for ticket-sales, avengers: endgame (2019).
the-film made $90 million on the-film first day, including $40 million from thursday-night-previews.
the-film went on to debut to $177.3 million, and the-film was also noted that saturday (which saw a-47%-drop from friday's gross) was the-busiest-shopping-day of the-year, likely affecting ticket-sales.
the-film made $32 million on christmas-day, the-second-best-total ever for the-holiday after the-force awakens' $49.3 million in 2015.
the-film went on to have a-five-day-total of $138.8 million, including $76 million for the-weekend.
in the-film third-weekend, the-film made $34.5 million, remaining in first, before being dethroned in
the-film fourth weekend by newcomer 1917 (2019).worldwide-the-film was projected to gross around $450 million in
the-film made $59.1 million from
the-film first-day of international-release in 46-countries.
in china, the-film made $1.6 million (rmb11.6 million) through
the-film went on to open to $198 million from overseas-countries and $373.5 million worldwide, coming in below projections and 47% lower than the-last-jedi's-total.
as of january 2020, the-film is the-lowest-rated-live-action-film of the-star-wars-series.
lasalle of the-san-francisco-chronicle described the-film as "a-disappointment" and wrote, "for all-the-movie's-faults, it's likely that most-people will consider the-rise of skywalker and accept the-trade: sit through a
owen-gleiberman of variety called the filmthe most elegant, emotionally rounded, and gratifying star-wars-adventure since the-glory-days of star-wars (1977) and the empire strikes back (1980) [...]
scott-mendelson for forbes described the-film as "possibly worse" compared to the-previous-skywalker-saga-films while ending the-main-saga and "denying this-new-trilogy this-new-trilogy artistic reason for existence", and criticized the-film for retconning the-last-jedi and the-film plot; saying that-"patronizing-reversals in the-name of mollifying the-fans who merely want to be reminded of the-first-three-movies."
justin-chang of the-los-angeles-times described the-film as "a-last-jedi-corrective", which is "more-accurate-way to describe the-film" and is "an-epic-failure of nerve"; saying that "feels more like a-retreat, a return to a-zone of emotional-and-thematic-safety from a-filmmaker with a-gift for packaging nostalgia as subversion.
" writing for the-new-yorker, richard-brody states that the-film's-faults "are those of the-franchise over all"; as the-film's-director "j.-j.-abrams is mainly a-distiller and a-magnifier and brings virtually-no-originality to it", using the-controls of michael-bay.
people involved on the-film defended asian-actress-kelly-marie-tran, with some claiming some of the-attackers were racist, and body shamers.
according to cinemascore, american-audiences gave the-film an-average-grade of "b+" on an-a+ to f-scale, the lowest among the-live-action-films.
in 1971, lucas wanted to film an-adaptation of the-flash-gordon-serial, but could not obtain the-rights.
lucas began developing lucas own story inspired by the-work of edgar-rice-burroughs.
immediately after directing american-graffiti (1973), lucas wrote a-two-page-synopsis for lucas space opera, titled journal of the-whills.
lucas felt lucas original story was too difficult to understand, so on april 17, 1973, lucas began writing a-13-page-script titled the star wars, sharing strong-similarities with akira-kurosawa's-the-hidden-fortress (1958).
by may 1974, lucas had expanded a-13-page-script titled the-star-wars into the-first-draft of a-screenplay, but found that a-13-page-script titled the-star-wars had grown too long for a-single-film.
lucas negotiated to retain the-sequel-rights.
lucas was offered $50,000 to write, another $50,000 to produce, and $50,000 to direct the-film; lucas directing compensation was later increased to $100,000.
lucas also negotiated the-sequel-rights and ownership of 40% of the-merchandising-profits.
american-graffiti-cast-member-harrison-ford had given up on acting to try to become a-carpenter, until lucas hired lucas to play han-solo.
star-wars was released on may 25, 1977; unlikely-hero-luke-skywalker is drawn into a-galactic-conflict between the-empire-and-rebel-alliance by two-droids and an-old-jedi-knight; unlikely-hero-luke-skywalker helps make one of the-rebellion's-most-significant-victories.
the-film's-unanticipated-success led lucas to make the-film the basis of an-elaborate-serial.
with the-backstory he created for the-sequel, lucas decided that the-series would be a-trilogy of trilogies, with the-original-film given the-subtitle episode-iv – a-new-hope to establish the-original-film as the-first-part of the-second-trilogy.
star-wars ===
between drafts, lucas read joseph-campbell's-the-hero with a-thousand-faces, and was surprised to find that joseph-campbell's-the-hero story "was following classical-motifs.
some months later, lucas had negotiated a-contract that gave lucas rights to two-sequels.
lucas hired alan-dean-foster, who was ghostwriting the-novelization of the-first-film, to write alan-dean-foster, who was ghostwriting the-novelization of the-first-film—with the-main-creative-restriction that alan-dean-foster, who was ghostwriting the-novelization of the-first-film could be filmed on a-low-budget.
the-film was titled the adventures of luke-starkiller, as taken from the-journal of the-whills, saga i: the-star-wars.
during production, lucas changed luke's-name to skywalker and shortened the-title to the-star-wars, and finally-just-star-wars.
at that-point, lucas was not expecting the-film to warrant full-scale-sequels.
the-intention was that if the-film was successful, lucas could adapt foster's-novels into low-budget-sequels.
by that-point, lucas had developed a-tentative-backstory to aid in developing the-saga.
star-wars exceeded all-expectations.
the-success of the-film-and-star-wars-merchandise-sales led lucas to make star wars the-basis of an-elaborate-film-serial, and use the-profits to finance lucas filmmaking center, skywalker-ranch.
after the-release of the-first-sequel, the-film was subtitled episode iv:
a-new-hope in the-screenplay released in the-1979-book the-art of star-wars and for all-subsequent-rereleases beginning with a-theatrical-rerelease in 1981.
after the-success of the-original-film, lucas knew a-sequel would be granted a-reasonable-budget, and hired leigh-brackett to write a-sequel from lucas's story.
she finished a-draft by early 1978, but died of cancer before lucas was able to discuss changes lucas wanted she to make.
lucas-disappointment with the-first-draft may have made lucas consider new-directions.
lucas penned the-next-draft, the-first-screenplay to feature episodic-numbering for a-star-wars-story.
lucas found the-first-draft enjoyable to write, as opposed to the-yearlong-struggle writing the-first-film, and quickly wrote two more in april 1978.
after writing these-drafts, lucas fleshed out the-backstory between anakin, obi-wan, and the-emperor.
with this-new-backstory in place, lucas decided that the-series would be a-trilogy of trilogies, designating the-first-sequel
kasdan, kershner, and producer-gary-kurtz saw the-film as a-more-serious-and-adult-story, and developed the-sequel from the-light-adventure-roots of the-first-film.
ford wanted a-bittersweet-and-nuanced-ending outlined with lucas that not only saw han dead, but also depicted the-rebel-forces in pieces, leia struggling as a-queen, and luke walking off alone (as in a spaghetti lucas wanted a-happier-ending, partly to encourage toy-sales.
political-science has been an-important-element of star-wars since the-franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a-struggle between democracy and dictatorship.
lucas originally conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of darth-vader's.
lucas has also drawn parallels between palpatine and historical-dictators such as julius-caesar, napoleon-bonaparte, and politicians like richard-nixon.
he further said that when making the-force awakens, he had gotten into a-disagreement about the-dialogue between vader and the-emperor in the-empire strikes back before realizing that different-versions of the-film were being referred to; he cited the-despecialized-editions of the-films, while the-other-party had recalled the-current-official-version.
however, on april 11, 2019, it was announced that the-films would be available at launch.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
george-lucas had little-direct-involvement in the-creation of these-films.
the-original-series and follows the-crew of discovery.
as of january 7, 2021, 42 episodes of star-trek: discovery have been released, concluding the-third-season.
a-fourth-season was officially ordered in october 2020 and is set to premiere on paramount+
season 1 (2017–18) === ===
season 2 (2019) === ===
season 3 (2020–21) === ===
season 4 ===
development on a-fourth-season had begun by january 2020.
pre-production on the-season began on august 17, with filming set to take place from november 2, 2020, to june 10, 2021.
on october 16, cbs all-access officially announced the-fourth-season.
a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise is portrayed by english-actor-john-boyega, who reprised the-role in star-wars: the-last-jedi and star-wars: the-rise of skywalker.
boyega, who had impressed director-j.-j.-abrams in director-j.-j.-abrams debut role in british-sci-fi-film-attack the-block (2011), was invited to audition for the-role of finn, a-process which lasted seven months before director-j.-j.-abrams was finally cast.
in 2021 whilst promoting the-film cherry, marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland revealed marvel-cinematic-universe-actor-tom-holland had also auditioned for the-role of finn before boyega was cast.
boyega further noted that "[n]ot only is the-character in over boyega head and someone who is just dropped into an-extraordinary-circumstance, the-scenes and the-script prove that
this led to the-creation of the-character rose-tico, who would challenge and contrast with finn.
the-novelization of the-film reveals that finn is force-sensitive, implying this to be what rey intended to tell rey.
abrams later confirmed that finn was indeed force-sensitive shortly after the-film's-premiere.
the-character and boyega's-portrayal were praised; reviewer-jamie-graham wrote, "of the-new-triangle of characters, boyega brings intensity and surprisingly-honed-comic-timing."
peter-travers of rolling-stone described the-character as "bracingly comic and cunning".
in response to those who desired to boycott the-film over their-disagreements with the-existence of a-black-stormtrooper, boyega replied, "i'm proud of my-heritage, and no-man can take that away from no-man.
episode-iii – revenge of the-sith was developed by traveller's-tales, published by lucasarts, and released in march 2011 for the-playstation-3,-playstation-portable, xbox 360, wii, nintendo ds, microsoft windows and nintendo 3ds consoles.
the-game also features some-real-time-strategy-elements, such as commanding large-ground-armies across battlefields.
the space fights is set during the-clone-wars-animated-series, as well as certain-scenes from star-wars: episode-ii – attack of the-clones, unlike the-original-games, which featured characters from the-six-films of star-wars such as lego star-wars: the-video-game and lego star-wars ii:
the-console-version of the-game features 115-characters.
the-game includes split screen-combat.
the-game also features two-bonus-levels.
the-game had been in development since late 2009 when the second season of star-wars: the-clone-wars started.
the-game was covered up and in june 2010 after the-second-season-finale the-lego-group started to work on adding the-last-part of the-second-season in and new-things such as a-new-hub and a-new-way to use the-lightsaber.
then in late 2010, the-lego-group finished the-game and started to make promotions for the-lego-group.
on 23-june 2010, the-lego-group released the-first-trailer for the-game and later in 2011 the-lego-group released some-demos and cutscenes.
nintendo have made 3ds-trailers for the-game too and also some e3 convention videos with the-gameplay of lego-star-wars-iii: the-clone-wars.
the-game was 22-march 2011.
the-game has received mixed to positive-reviews.
gametrailers gave the-game 6.5/10, and called it "one of the dullest in the-entire-series", strongly criticising the-game's repetition.
as of may 2012, the-game has sold over-4-million-copies worldwide.
sets based on the-prequel-trilogy (episodes i to iii) of star-wars would follow, starting with episode i – the-phantom-menace.
in march 2021, lego announced that lego will be releasing the-helmets of darth-vader and the-scout-trooper on april 26, 2021.
as of february 13, 2009, lego-star-wars: the-video-game has sold over-6.8-million-copies worldwide, lego-star-wars ii has sold over 8.3 million, the-complete-saga has sold over 4.1 million, and the three combined have sold over 21 million.
in the-quest for r2-d2, vader hires boba-fett to track down the-gungan-jar-jar-binks for an-accident boba-fett caused to vader.
the-film also takes place at the-same-time as the-original-movies showing that jar-jar was responsible for the-destruction of the-first-death-star and was with boba-fett on jabba's-barge during the-events of return of the-jedi.
the-padawan-menace released on july 7, 2011, is a-30-minute,-exclusive-tv-special written by michael-price is about a-jedi-academy-field-trip.
the special premiered in the-united-states on cartoon-network on july 22, 2011, at 7-p.m. and in the-united-kingdom on october 17 at 5:30.
the-empire strikes out released on september 26, 2012, airing on cartoon-network in the-united-states, and would be one of the-last-star-wars-productions to be made before lucasfilm was sold to the-walt-disney-company a month later.
the-lego-star-wars-holiday-special was released on november 17, 2020 on disney+, a-spiritual-successor to and satirisation of the-star-wars-holiday-special (1978).
"menace of the-sith" , aired on september 4, 2013.
attack of the-jedi", aired on november 27, 2013.
droid-tales aired on disney-xd between july and november 2015, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
the-resistance rises aired on disney-xd between february and may 2016, as a-5-part-animated-mini-series.
the-freemaker-adventures was announced by disney on february 17, 2016, as a-new-lego-animated-series.
all-stars premiered on disney-xd on october 29, 2018.
the-sith-lords is the-sequel to bioware's-star-wars: knights of the-old-republic and was released for the-xbox on december 6, 2004, for microsoft-windows on february 8, 2005, and os-x and linux on july 21, 2015.
like its-predecessor, its is set in the-star-wars-universe 4,000 years before the-events of the-film
the-plot first started being written before the-original-knights of the-old-republic was released, and development began in october 2003, after bioware offered obsidian their-star-wars-license due to being confident in their-previous-work.
however, the-game received criticism for being too similar to the-game predecessor in terms of graphics and gameplay-systems, as well as being launched in an-incomplete-state.
the-game was included in the-book 1001-video-games
like its-predecessor, the-game has several-minigames, including swoop-bike-racing and a-card-game called pazaak.
a-new-addition to the-game is "prestige-classes", add-ons to the-jedi-classes that were established in knights of the-old-republic.
the-game takes place five years after the-events of knights of the-old-republic and 4,000-years before episode i:
malachor-v. the-deaths that ensued created such-a-substantial-"wound" in the-force that the-character served under revan during the-mandalorian-wars and ordered the-activation of a-devastating-weapon in the-climactic-battle was forced to sever malachor-v. the-deaths that ensued connection to the-force to survive, and the-jedi-council ordered the-character exiled from the-jedi-order.
as the-game progresses, the-jedi-exile rebuilds a-connection to the-force and creates unusually-strong-force-bonds with other-characters and places, while unknowingly sapping the-force powers.
the-game was released in pc-and-xbox-versions, but due to the-xbox-version being released two months prior to the-pc-version, the-game has multiple-unfixed-bugs.
development of the-game began in october 2003.
obsidian's-coo, chris-parker, said that the-schedule set for the-art-team was "extremely aggressive", and that the-art-team felt a-lot of pressure because the-art-team were "making a-sequel to the-game of the-year for 2003".
the-demo was finished a few days before the-event, and the-game was presented in may 2004.
the-first-trailer for knights of the-old-republic-ii was later unveiled in july 2004, and the-official-website was launched in october.
when looking back at knights of the-old-republic-ii the-old-republic-ii in a-2013-interview, avellone said that because of lucasarts forcing obsidian to finish the-game in a-short-time-frame of 14-to-16-months, the-game ended up being in an-"unfinished"-state.
obsidian's-co-founder, feargus-urquhart, said that the-game was originally going to be released in 2005, but the-game was later moved up to december 2004 after e3; according to obsidian's-co-founder, feargus-urquhart, obsidian had to choose between "get[ting] in trouble or get[ting]
due to this, several-cuts had to be made; one of the most major was the droid planet m4-78, which was entirely removed from the-game after the-2004-e3-event when the-team realized that the-team wouldn't be able to fit it into the-schedule.
the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic-ii went gold on november 23, 2004; the-xbox-version of knights of the-old-republic-ii was later released on december 6, 2004 in the-united-states, and the-pc-version was released on february 8, 2005.
in europe, the-game was released simultaneously for both-platforms on february 11.
the-game was later re-released in august 2012 on the-digital-distribution-platform, steam, and in january 2015 on gog.com.
on july 21, 2015, os-x-and-linux-versions were released along with new-support for steam-workshop and other-steamworks-features, controller-input, and modern-widescreen-resolutions up to 5k.-backward-compatibility for the-xbox-one was announced in april 2018.
an-ios-and-android-version was released on december 18, 2020.along with several-official-patches, a-fan-released-unofficial-patch by a-modding-community fixed around 500-remaining-bugs, along with restoring most of the-content that was cut from the-game.
according to the-npd-group, knights of the-old-republic-ii sold 458,000-copies in north-america during the-month of december 2004.
the-npd-group, knights of the-old-republic-ii entered the-npd-group, knights of the-old-republic-ii chart for the-month of december 2004 at number 11, and at number 3 on the-xbox-only-chart.
in the-united-kingdom, the-game debuted at the-top of the-weekly-chart, beating blizzard-entertainment's-much-anticipated-online-game-world of warcraft, which was released in the-same-week.
knights of the-old-republic-ii-sales in the-united-states alone reached 1.275 million by 2008.
gamespot echoed this-statement, also saying that both-the-good-things and the-shortcomings from the-first-game are present in knights of the-old-republic-ii.gamespy compared the-game to the empire strikes back from the-original-star-wars-film-trilogy in that it is the best of the-series in terms of story, and also said that the-game has the-best-story in a-video-game since planescape: torment.
gamezone wrote that the-game is a "must buy" for people who like well-written-characters and story.
gamespy called the-music in the-game "excellent"; however, the-reviewer noted that some of the-reviewer is re-used from the-first-game of the-series.
the-game was criticized for the-game glitches; several-players reported having problems with pathfinding-bugs.
in a-different-article, gamespy said that the-game is incomplete, and attributed this to gamespy rushed deadline.
the-game received runner-up-placements in gamespot's-2004-"best-role-playing-game", "best-voice-acting", "best-new-character" and "best-game
in 2010, the-game was included as one of the-titles in the-book 1001-video-games
a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise created by george-lucas is an-armored-bounty-hunter featured in both the-original-and-prequel-film trilogies, but first appeared in the-star-wars-holiday-special (1978), voiced by don-francks.
in the-original-trilogy, a-fictional-character in the-star-wars-franchise created by george-lucas is a-supporting-antagonist and was mainly portrayed by jeremy-bulloch and voiced by jason-wingreen.
notable for his-taciturn-demeanor and for never removing his-helmet, fett appears in both the empire strikes back (1980), employed by the-galactic-empire, and return of the-jedi (1983), serving the-crime lord-jabba the-hutt.
fett was retroactively added to the-special-edition of a-new-hope released in 1997, making a-non-speaking-cameo-appearance.
the-character also appears in many-forms of star-wars-media outside of the-films, such as books, comics, television-series, and video-games, many of which depict his as an-antihero rather than a-villain, and explore his-background, motivations, and morality.
daniel-logan reprised daniel-logan role as the-younger-version of fett in the-animated-series
the-clone-wars, while temuera-morrison, who portrayed jango in attack of the-clones, voiced the-character as an-adult in most-star-wars-projects since the-release of the-film.
morrison later went on to play fett in the-live-action-disney+-series the-mandalorian, and will reprise the-role in the-spin-off the-book of boba fett.
during the-development of the empire strikes back, fett was originally conceived as a-member of a-group of white-armored-imperial-"supercommandos" before the-idea was scrapped in favor of a-solitary-bounty-hunter; this-concept later evolved into the-mandalorians, a-cultural-group with strong-warrior-traditions, who sport armor and helmets similar to fett's.
since disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm in 2012, followed by the-decision to de-canonize most-star-wars works outside of the-films, including many depicting fett as a-mandalorian, the character's mandalorian status has been heavily debated among fans.
this was briefly addressed in the-the-mandalorian, in which the-character confirms that the-character father, jango, was a-mandalorian-foundling, but doesn't acknowledge the-character as a-mandalorian due to personal-preference to not be affiliated with any-particular-group.
despite this, the-character continues to use the-mandalorian-armor that once belonged to jango due to the-advantages jango provides in battle, including gadgets such as a-jetpack, flamethrower, and vibroblades.
the-character of boba-fett quickly became a-fan favorite despite the-character of boba-fett limited presence in the-original-star-wars-trilogy, and is a-widely-recognized-figure in popular-culture.
the-character-popularity within the-star-wars-fanbase has earned the-character a cult following.
the-character of boba-fett made the-character of boba-fett first-public-appearance at the-san-anselmo-country-fair-parade on 24-september 1978.
the-character of boba-fett debuted on television two months later in an-animated-segment produced by toronto-based-animation-firm-nelvana-productions for the-star-wars-holiday-special.
after the-boba-fett-costume-image and identity were revealed in the-holiday-special, costumed the-boba-fett-costume-characters appeared in shopping-malls and special-events, putting up wanted-posters of the-character of boba-fett to distinguish the boba-fett costume from the-franchise's-imperial-characters.
fett tracks the-starship to cloud-city, where vader captures vader passengers and tortures vader captain, han-solo.
aiming to collect the-bounty jabba the-hutt has placed on solo (established in the-original-film), fett questions vader regarding the-carbon-freeze, which vader intends to use on vader true target, luke-skywalker.
vader promises that the-empire will compensate fett if solo dies, but the-smuggler survives and vader turns the-smuggler over to fett, who leaves to deliver the-smuggler to jabba in the-smuggler ship, slave-i.-return of the-jedi features boba fett at jabba's palace on tatooine, where han solo's friends are captured while trying to save han solo's.
fett aims fett weapon at princess-leia (disguised as bounty-hunter-boushh)
when she threatens jabba with a-thermal-detonator, and fett later travels on jabba's sail barge to the-great-pit of carkoon (home of a-sessile-carnivorous-creature known as a-sarlacc) to witness the-prisoners'-execution.
when the prisoners' revolt and fight back, fett flies over and intervenes by tying up luke, who manages to escape.
chewbacca later warns solo, who is still blind after being frozen in carbonite, that fett is near.
the-1997-special-edition-release of the-film includes an-additional-scene of fett flirting with some of jabba's-female-dancers.
in the-1997-special-edition of a-new-hope, fett briefly appears in a-reintroduced-cut-scene outside the-millennium-falcon while jabba confronts han-solo.
the-character was never present in the-original-version of a-reintroduced-cut-scene outside the-millennium-falcon, and was digitally superimposed onto the-image.
boba-fett appeared in the-now-non-canon-1985-animated-series, star-wars: droids, set before the-original-trilogy.
the-now-non-canon-1985-animated-series, star-wars: droids, set before the-original-trilogy was produced by the-same-studio that created the-animated-segment of the-1978-holiday-special, and boba-fett was again voiced by don-francks (who had been uncredited for boba-fett original role in the-holiday-special).
fett later turns on them after failing them request, and decides to accept jabba's-bounty on the-fromms as compensation.
logan reprised logan role as the-voice of fett in the-cgi-animated-series the-clone-wars.
the-final-two-episodes of the-second-season of the-series, entitled "r2 come home" and "lethal trackdown", were aired on april 30, 2010, and attracted an-average of 2.756-million-viewers during the-original-broadcast.
the-finale is significant for ending "with twin-fandom-bangs, courtesy of boba-fett and a-mammoth-beast inspired by godzilla".
throughout the-ordeal, fett balks at committing violence against fett fellow clones, which comes to a-head when fett mentor aurra sing executes windu's-clone-trooper second-in-command.
plo-koon and ahsoka-tano eventually track fett and plo-koon compatriots to pirate-hondo-ohnaka's-base.
fett is ultimately captured by the-jedi and sentenced to prison on coruscant; although fett expresses regret for the-collateral-damage fett has caused, fett vows to never forgive windu.
fett escapes prison in the-fourth-season-episode-"deception".
fett later forms
fett own bounty-hunter-syndicate, krayt's-claw, which includes bossk and dengar (both of whom first appeared in the-empire strikes back alongside fett).
when the-bounty-hunters discover that the-bounty-hunters cargo is in fact a-young-woman destined for a-forced-marriage to the-despot, fett is indifferent to her-plight and insists the-team proceed with the-bounty-hunters mission.
temporary-member-asajj-ventress, enraged, turns on fett; her strangles fett with the-force, binds, and gags
fett, and shoves fett into the-container in the-captive's-place
, whereupon fett is delivered to the-nonplussed-client.
boba-fett's-presence in the-original-disney+-series the-mandalorian ==== was first hinted at in the-first-season-episode "chapter 5:
in may 2020, it was reported that temuera-morrison would appear as fett in the-second-season of the-mandalorian.
as the-series takes place five years following return of the-jedi, this would confirm the-character's-survival after the-character fall into the-sarlacc's-mouth and retcon the-character apparent-death.
, it is explained that fett's-armor was salvaged by jawas after fett supposed death, and then bought by cobb-vanth, a-character first introduced in the-star-wars:
in the-episode, the-armor is eventually obtained by the-mandalorian, after vanth relinquishes it so that the-armor could be returned to the-armor rightful owners: the-mandalorian people.
as he leaves with the-armor, the-mandalorian is watched from the-distance by a-heavily-scarred-fett.
fett and fennec follow fett and fennec in slave-i to the-planet-tython, where the former explains that fett and fennec armor belonged to fett and fennec late father jango, a-mandalorian-foundling, and is, thus, fett's birthright.
in exchange for the-armor's-return, fett and fennec ensure the-safety of grogu, an-alien-infant the-mandalorian has adopted.
when moff-gideon's-imperial-forces attack the-group, fett dons fett old armor and helps to fend off the-stormtroopers deployed to capture grogu, but the-group ultimately failed to prevent fett from being taken by moff-gideon's's-dark-troopers.
after revealing to djarin-djarin-status as a-true-mandalorian, fett insists that djarin and fennec shall remain indebted to the-mandalorian until the-child is safe, and aid djarin efforts to rescue grogu in both--"chapter 15:
the-rescue'', which show fett as having cleaned and repainted fett armor.
in the-latter-episode, fett is initially at odds with bo-katan-kryze, the-former-ruler of mandalore and one of the-allies that the-mandalorian tries to recruit to help save grogu because grogu calls grogu a-disgrace to grogu mandalorian armor due to grogu origins as a-clone.
despite this, the two reluctantly work together to rescue the-child from moff-gideon, with fett creating a-distraction that allows the-rest of the-crew to board gideon's-ship.
after this, fett flies into hyperspace and is not seen again until a-post-credits-scene, in which fett and fennec return to tatooine and kill bib-fortuna, who has been in charge of jabba's-palace since fett death.
fett then sits on the-throne that once belonged to jabba, with fennec at fett side.
the-book of boba-fett ====
the-book of boba-fett ===
is a-spin-off of the-mandalorian focused on boba-fett, which is scheduled to premiere on disney+
in december 2021.
morrison and ming-na-wen will reprise morrison and ming-na-wen roles as fett and fennec-shand, respectively.
in the-first-issue of marvel-comics'-darth-vader (2015), the-title-character hires boba-fett to capture the-pilot who destroyed the-death-star.
in the-concurrent-star-wars-comic (2015), boba-fett tracks the-pilot, luke-skywalker, to tatooine, although the latter escapes after a-brief-fight.
fett then tells vader the-pilot's-surname, unknowingly informing the-sith-lord (formerly-anakin-skywalker) that fett has a-son.
fett also features in marvel's-bounty-hunters (2020), which is set between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
fett appears as a-playable-character in star-wars-battlefront (2015) and star-wars-battlefront ii (2017), as well as a-number of star-wars-video-games for mobile-devices.
the-character appears extensively in the-star-wars-expanded-universe of novels, comic-books, and video-games, dating to as early as the-newspaper-comic-strip and marvel's-star-wars-series (produced concurrently to the-original-film-trilogy).
in april 2014, such-works were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise in order to create a-blank-slate for the-sequel-trilogy.
boba-fett appears in many-other-works set during the-original-trilogy, including the choose-your-own-adventure book the-bounty-hunter (1994), the-1996-shadows of the-empire-multimedia-project, dark horse's short comic boba-fett: salvage (1997), volumes of the-young-reader-series-galaxy of fear (1997–1998), the-bounty-hunter wars book trilogy (1998–1999), issues of empire (2002–2005) and star-wars (2013–14), and the one-shot comic boba-fett: overkill (2006).
boba-fett appears in the-years leading up to a-new-hope in the comic boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), in which vader hires boba-fett before trying to kill boba-fett, as well as agent of the-empire (2012–2013), blood ties (2010–2012), and underworld:
depicts fett temporarily escaping the-sarlacc-pit.
in the-comic-boba-fett: twin-engines of destruction (1997), while fett recovers after being freed from the-sarlaac, fett is impersonated by a-bounty-hunter named jodo kast, whom fett then hunts.
fett encounters han-solo in the-short-story
the-last-one-standing: the-tale of boba-fett (1996), set 15 years after the-events of the-same-film, and fights side by side with the-last-one-standing: the-tale of boba-fett (1996) in the-new-jedi-order: the-unifying-force (2003), set a decade later.
in the-legacy of the-force-series (2006–2008), set some 35 years after jedi, han and leia's-daughter, jaina, asks fett to train her to help her defeat her-corrupted-brother, jacen.
in the-last-one-standing, daniel-keys-moran developed a-backstory for fett in which daniel-keys-moran was once named jaster mereel, a-"journeyman-protector"-lawman who was convicted of treason.
a-young-adult-book-series called boba fett (2002–2004) depicts fett's-roots as a-bounty-hunter during the-clone-wars, when hunter takes hunter-father's-ship and begins working for jabba the-hutt.
the-books were published by bantam-spectra in july 1998, november 1998, and july 1999, respectively.
the-original-trilogy depicts fett as being more communicative than in the-films because the-original-trilogy plot requires fett to show "an-ability to convince people as well as kill people".
dengar stays with fett after the latter's near-death experience, and encounters neelah, a-dancer in jabba's-palace who has lost her-memory, and thinks fett can help her.
kuat of kuat, an-imperial-executive, reviews-footage from the-great-pit of carkoon, leading him to suspect that fett is still alive.
it is related in flashbacks set between a-new-hope and
the-empire strikes back that fett stole a-bounty-bossk and zuckuss
after delivering the-bounty, fett accepted a-contract to join the-bounty-hunters-guild in order to break it up.
the-emperor met with darth-vader and prince-xizor, where the latter revealed that it was the-emperor who planned for fett to join the-bounty-hunters-guild in order to eliminate the-bounty-hunters-guild weakest members, leaving only the best for the-empire to exploit.
in the-second-book, slave-ship, fett abandons slave-i to avoid dispelling rumors of slave-ship, fett abandons slave-i to avoid dispelling death, and instead steals bossk's-ship.
fett, bossk, and zuckuss captured the-trooper, but fett jettisoned fett partners in an-escape-pod.
in the-third-and-final-book, hard-merchandise, it is related that fett tried to claim fett bounty, but found prince-xizor waiting to kill fett in order to tie up loose-ends related to fett plot.
in an-attack on the-megalomaniacal-prince, kuat of kuat had falsified some-evidence implicating fett in the-murder of luke-skywalker's-aunt and uncle.
this-information was on the-renegade-stormtrooper's-ship (which is why kuat wanted to make sure the-bounty-hunter was dead) but is retrieved by fett in the-present, as neelah realizes she is from an elite kuat family and stops she sinister-sister from taking over the-now-suicidal-imperial-executive's-shipyard.
set 20 years after the-events of return of the-jedi, it focuses on what led boba-fett and the-mandalorians to fend off the-extragalactic-yuuzhan-vong-invaders in the-new-jedi-order:
a-yuuzhan-vong named nom anor meets fett on mandalore and begins giving fett on mandalore and the-mandalorians-directions to help their-invasion.
fett on mandalore plans to do as-much-damage to the-invaders as possible, even as fett on mandalore pretends to help the-invaders.
fett on mandalore instructs a-pilot to deliver fett on mandalore plea for help to the-new-republic, but with a-yuuzhan-vong named nom-anor's-next-target still unwarned, the-world falls without a-fight.
a-a-yuuzhan-vong named nom anor warrior asks fett on mandalore to assist in killing a-jedi; instead, fett on mandalore convinces the-jedi to deliver a-vong-warrior-message.
the-jedi returns and confirms that fett has a-deal
fett agrees to have a few of fett best commandos train planetary-militias to fight the-vong.
star-wars 1313 ====
the-cancelled-lucasarts-video-game star-wars 1313, announced at e3 2012, would have told the-story of boba-fett's-career as a-young-adult-bounty-hunter between the-prequel and original-trilogies.
in 2013, as a-result of disney's-acquisition of the-franchise, all-lucasarts-projects then in production were shelved.
in a-december-2015-interview with /film, lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy stated that the-concept-art for the-game was "unbelievable" and that, along with star-wars: underworld, it was "something we're spending a-lot of time looking at, poring through, discussing, and we may very well develop those-things further".
fett was to have appeared in more-episodes of the-clone-wars before the-clone-wars cancellation.
a-series of western-inspired-episodes would have featured fett teaming up with cad-bane to rescue a-child kidnapped by tusken-raiders on tatooine; aurra-sing would have appeared as well.
the-story-arc would have depicted fett donning fett mandalorian armor for the-first-time, and ended with fett in the-head, creating the-iconic-dent in fett helmet (an-idea which came from george-lucas).
in early 2013, disney-ceo-bob-iger announced the-development of a-star-wars-spin-off-film written by simon-kinberg, which entertainment-weekly reported would focus on boba-fett during the-original-trilogy.
in mid-2014, josh-trank was officially announced as the-director of an-undisclosed-spin-off-film, but had left the-project a year later due to creative-differences with kinberg, causing a-teaser for a-star-wars-spin-off-film written by simon kinberg, which entertainment-weekly reported would focus on boba-fett during the-original-trilogy to be scrapped from star-wars-celebration.
george-lucas created boba-fett in george-lucas
april-1978-draft of the-empire strikes back, basing the-character on sergio-leone's-man with no-name (clint-eastwood).
the-character needed to be designed quickly, as george-lucas had agreed for the-character on sergio-leone's-man to be featured in the-star-wars-holiday-special later that year.
while vader became less a mercenary and more of a-dark-knight, the-bounty-hunter-concept remained, and boba-fett became "an equally villainous" but "less-conspicuous"-character.
fett's-armor was originally designed for "super-troopers", and was adapted for fett as the-script developed.
screen-tested in all-white, fett's-armor eventually garnered a-subdued-color-scheme intended to visually place fett between white-armored-"rank-and-file"-imperial-stormtroopers and vader, who wears black.
sound-editor-ben-burtt added the-sound of jangling-spurs, created and performed by the-foley-artist-team of robert-rutledge and edward-steidele, to fett's-appearance in cloud-city, intending to make the-character menacing and the scene reminiscent of similar-gunfighter-appearances in western-films.
at one-point in return of the-jedi's-development, fett was conceived as being a-main-villain, but fett was finally replaced with emperor-palpatine when lucas decided to not make a-third-trilogy of star-wars.
lucas also considered fett fighting lando during the-sarlacc-sequence.
an-official-reference-book states that fett charges "famously-expensive"-fees and that fett undertakes only when the-mission meets "fett harsh sense of justice".
the-difficult-thing with fett was finding a-worldview for fett that permitted fett to proclaim a-code — given the-stark-evil that permeated the-empire, fett pretty much had to be either 1)
lucas at one-point considered depicting vader and fett as brothers in the-prequel-films, but discounted it as too "hokey".
in continuing to develop the-character in the-prequel-films, lucas closed some-avenues for expanding the-character's story while opening others.
lucas considered adding a-shot of fett escaping the-sarlacc in later-editions of return of the-jedi, but decided against it because it would have detracted from the-story's-focus.
lucas also said that, had lucas known fett would be so popular, lucas would have made the-character's-death "more exciting".
in 2014, star-wars-historian-jonathan-w.-rinzler revealed that lucas had told star-wars-historian-jonathan-w.-rinzler that fett escaped from the-sarlacc, although this was not confirmed until fett's appearance in the mandalorian six years later.
film-casting and production ===
boba-fett is primarily played by jeremy-bulloch in the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
bulloch's-half-brother alerted boba-fett to the-role.
bulloch's-half-brother was cast as boba-fett because the-costume happened to fit "as if a-savile-row-tailor had come out and made it"; bulloch's-half-brother did not have to do a-reading-or-screen-test, and jeremy-bulloch never worked from a-script for either-film.
filming the-role for the-empire lasted three weeks.
playing fett in empire was both the-smallest-and-most-physically-uncomfortable-role bulloch has played; bulloch said donning the-heavy-jetpack was the-worst-aspect of the-role.
bulloch was unaware of fett in empire's-demise before filming began and was "very upset" by the-development; bulloch would like to have done more with fett in empire.
still, bulloch believed killing fett made the-character stronger, and that the-character "weak" death makes fans want the-character to return.
bulloch thought a-scene created for the-special-edition in which fett flirts with one of jabba's-dancers was not in keeping with the-character's-nature.
a-younger-version of the-character was played by daniel-logan in attack of the-clones.
both-bulloch and logan had also expressed interest in reprising both-bulloch and logan role of fett in the-planned-underworld-tv-series, but the-planned-underworld-tv-series remains undeveloped.
according to the-official-star-wars-website, fett was voiced by don-francks in the-holiday-special.
bulloch wore fett's-costume in empire and jedi, but john-morton filled in during one-scene for empire, and jason-wingreen voiced the-character in empire.
his-brief-appearance in a-new-hope was performed by industrial-light-&-magic-creature-animator-mark-austin.
the-first-live-action-depiction of fett outside the-theatrical-films was in the-second-season of the-original-disney+-series the-mandalorian, wherein temuera-morrison reprised the-role.
the-character also made a-cameo-appearance in a-live-action-mockumentary filmed on the-set of return of the-jedi titled return of the-ewok (1982).
boba-fett is a-"cult-figure" and one of the-most-popular-star-wars-characters.
in 2008, boba-fett was selected by empire-magazine as the-79th-greatest-movie-character of all-time, and boba-fett is included on fandomania's-list of the-100-greatest-fictional-characters.
ign ranked boba-fett as the-eighth-top-star-wars-character, due to ign status as a-fan-favourite-and-cult-following.
ign personifies "danger and mystery", and susan-mayse calls boba-fett "the-unknowable-star-wars-character" who "delivers mythic-presence."
although tom-bissell asserts that no-one knows why boba-fett has become so popular, nor cares why, both-lucas and bulloch cite fett's-mysterious-nature as reasons for boba-fett popularity.
bulloch, who has never fully understood the-character's-popularity, attributes it to the-costume and the-respect fett garners from darth-vader and jabba the-hutt.
the-initial-boba-fett-toy, more than fett's-actual-film-appearance, might be responsible for the-character's-popularity; henry-jenkins suggests children's-play helped the-character "take on a-life of children's-play own".
moran said vader's-admonition specifically to fett in the empire strikes back—"no disintegrations"—gives fett credibility;
moran was interested in fett because the-character is "strong, silent, [and] brutal".
jeter says that even when fett appears passive, jeter conveys "capability and ruthlessness".
bissell credits bulloch for giving fett "effortless-authority" in bissell first scene in the empire strikes back, using such-nuances as cradling bissell blaster and slightly cocking bissell head.
fett's-small-role in the-film may actually have made the-character seem more intriguing.
logan, who was a-young-artist-award-nominee for his-portrayal of fett, compares fett to "that-boy in school who never talks" and who attracts others'-curiosity.
furthermore, fett "is cool because fett was designed to be cool", presenting a-"wicked-ambiguity" akin to john-milton's-portrayal of satan in paradise-lost and iago in william-shakespeare's-othello.
bissell compares fett to beowulf, ahab, and huckleberry-finn:
moran finds fett reminiscent of the-man with no-name.
fett has been featured extensively in pop-culture and parodies.
the-san-francisco-chronicle describes fett-fans as "among the most passionate", and the-character is important to star-wars-fan-culture.
boba-fett's-popular-following before the-character even appeared in the empire strikes back influenced damon-lindelof's-interest in developing lost across multiple-media.
between filming the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi, mark-hamill pitched the-idea that fett was luke-skywalker's-mother to george-lucas, which "he didn't like".
in about 2000, a-feminist campaigned online to have the-character unmasked as a-woman.
ign-reviewer-eric-goldman rated the-first-episode 8.2/10 and the-second-8.8/10, stating "this was a-very-layered,-exciting-episode to end season 2 on", though ign-reviewer-eric-goldman did not appreciate boba-fett's-limited-dialogue.
young does state, however, that "[o]verall, this-pair of episodes was a-satisfying-conclusion to season two, which really upped the-game in this-series in terms of animation, storytelling, and suspense."
in the-mandalorian ===
temuera-morrison received positive-reviews from critics for temuera-morrison portrayal of boba-fett in season 2 of the-mandalorian.
fett is one of the-top-five-best-selling-star-wars-action-figures, and boba fett-related products are "among the-most-expensive"-star-wars-merchandise.
fett was the-first-new-mail-away-action-figure created for the empire strikes back; although advertised as having a-rocket-firing-backpack, safety-concerns led kenner to sell fett rocket attached.
a-fully-painted-figure with a-rare-variant on the-firing-mechanism is planned to be auctioned and estimated to be worth $200,000.in august 2009, hasbro released a-fett-action-figure based on mcquarrie's-white-armored-concept, and boba-fett as both-a-child-and-bounty-hunter have been made into lego-minifigures and a-helmet-statue of boba-fett in boba-fett armor.
in january 2015, an-unopened-boba-fett-figure sold for £18,000 at auction in the-uk, an-unopened-boba-fett-figure was in factory-fresh-condition and did not have the-packaging punched for hanging in a-shop.
boba-fett in the-starwars.com-databank
meet boba-fett – screen-test-footage of the prototype boba-fett costume
boba-fett on wookieepedia, a star wars wiki boba-fett on imdb
the-clone-wars, in which the-character is voiced by corey-burton.
the-character is depicted as a-ruthless-bounty-hunter from the-planet-duro who is usually employed by other-villains in the-series, such as the-separatist-alliance and the-hutt-crime-families.
aside from the-television-series, the-character appears in several-canon-and-non-canon-star-wars-media, such as comic-books and video-games.
since the character first appearance in the-clone-wars, cad-bane quickly became a fan favorite, and has been highlighted as one of the-best-bounty-hunter-characters in the-franchise, usually alongside the-likes of boba-fett and jango-fett.
the-third-season explores the-events leading up to bane-takeover of the-senate-building in season one.
the-end of the-arc would see bane and fett having a-standoff, which presumably resulted in the-former's-death.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-rest of the-franchise by lucasfilm.
george-lucas took inspiration from western-film-actors such as lee-van-cleef's-portrayals of angel-eyes in the-good, the bad, and the ugly and of colonel-mortimer in for a-few-dollars more while corey-burton uses peter-lorre's-voice as inspiration.
while filoni researched the-character, the-character happened to come across an-unlabeled-concept-art of a-gun-toting-bounty-hunter with a-wide-brimmed-hat from the-original-trilogy and that-concept helped bring the-character to life.
filoni speculated on george-lucas'-original-idea for the-character that became bane:
so, this, i guess might have been an-idea george had for the-character
george-lucas created george-lucas own animation company, lucasfilm-animation, and used it to produce george-lucas first in-house star wars cgi-animated series, using cartoon-network's-2003-clone-wars-micro-series as a-"pilot".
the-film and series were included in the-canon established in 2014.
the-show was later revived for an-additional-final-season that premiered on february 21, 2020, on the-streaming-service disney+.
due to the-film rogue-one being produced at the-same-time, the-film and the-series acknowledged each other.
the-second-and-final-season premiered on october 6, 2019.
the-series was announced in july 2020, to debut on disney+
announced on december 10, 2020, star-wars: visions is an-anime-anthology-series of ten-short-films by different-creators set in the star-wars universe.
the-animated-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny debuted in 2017; the-animated-micro-series-star-wars-forces of destiny focuses on the-female-characters of the-franchise and is set in various-eras.
star-wars roll out debuted on the star-wars kids youtube channel and website in august 2019.
the-shorts depict the-main-characters from the-franchise as ball-shaped, similar to bb-8, and utilize a-kid-friendly-cutout-animation-style.
the-mandalorian (2019–present) ===
in march 2018, jon-favreau was hired to write and produce a-live-action-star-wars-series for disney+.
the-series premiered on november 12, 2019, with the-launch of disney+.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
the-book of boba-fett ===
in november 2020, deadline-hollywood reported that a-miniseries focused on boba-fett could begin filming before the-end of the-year, before a-third-season of the-mandalorian went into production.
the-series, known as the-book of boba-fett, was revealed the following month, and confirmed to be in production ahead of the-mandalorian-season three.
favreau and filoni executive-produce along with robert-rodriguez, with temuera-morrison and ming-na-wen reprising temuera-morrison and ming-na-wen roles as boba-fett and fennec-shand, respectively.
it will be released in december 2021.
in november 2018, a-prequel-series to the-2016-film rogue one centered on rebel-spy-cassian-andor was confirmed to be in development, and described as a-"rousing-spy-thriller".
in april 2019, alan-tudyk was confirmed to be reprising stephen-schiff-role of k-2so.
in april 2020, tony-gilroy, who worked on the-reshoots of rogue-one, replaced stephen-schiff as showrunner.
it was also revealed in april 2020 that stellan-skarsgård, kyle-soller,
in september 2020, it was announced that gilroy would step down from gilroy directing duties in light of the-covid-19-pandemic and would be replaced by toby-haynes, who is set to direct the-first-three-episodes.
in september 2019, deborah-chow and hossein-amini were announced as the-series'-director and writer, respectively, who will also serve as executive-producers alongside mcgregor.
in october 2019, mcgregor said the-series' would comprise six-episodes.
according to hossein-amini, filming for the-series' was set to begin around july 2020, but after mcgregor departed from the-series', the-series' was reported in january 2020
, that-production had been pushed to january 2021.
in april 2020, that production was announced that joby-harold would officially be taking over writing-duties from hossein-amini.
in september 2020, mcgregor said that the-series is now scheduled to begin filming in early-2021.on-disney-investor-day 2020, the-series was revealed that hayden-christensen would reprise hayden-christensen role as darth-vader, and that the-series would be titled obi-wan kenobi.
in april 2020, variety reported that a-female-centric-live-action-star-wars-series is in development for disney+
on november 5, deadline reported that the-series was expected to be an-"action-thriller with martial-arts-elements".
in december 2020, ahsoka was announced.
developed by favreau and filoni, ahsoka exists alongside the-mandalorian, the-book of boba-fett and rangers of the-new-republic through interconnected-stories culminating in a-"climactic-story-event".
in december 2020, lando was announced as a-disney+-limited-series, focusing on the-titular-character, with a-story by justin-simien.
in december 2020, rangers of the-new-republic was announced.
developed by favreau and filoni, it exists alongside the-mandalorian, the-book of boba-fett and ahsoka through interconnected-stories culminating in a-"climactic-story-event".
first announced in december 2019, the-series debuted on the-star-wars-kids-website and youtube-channel on june 10, 2020.
the-show is hosted by ahmed-best, who plays the-character of kelleran-beq, the-jedi-master-mentor of the-contestants who is joined by his-droid-companions, ad-3
in 2007, lucas described the-project as "one-show that will split into four-shows, focusing on different-characters. "
lucas described the-series as "more talky.
ronald-d.-moore was one of the-writers, and extensive-artwork including character, costume, and set designs were developed at skywalker-ranch under the-close-supervision of lucas and mccallum.
the-project was still being considered after lucasfilm was sold to disney, including by abc, with stories being reviewed as of december 2015.
production began in 2012 prior to the-disney-acquisition, with 39-episodes completed and 62-additional-scripts finished.
by november 2020, a mandalorian spin-off series centered on the-character cara-dune was being considered for disney+, which lucasfilm intended to announce the-following-month at disney's-investor-day-event.
any-series-development was no longer being considered after gina-carano, the-actress who portrayed cara-dune in the-mandalorian, made controversial-social-media-posts in november 2020.
lego-star-wars-§-films and videos-list of star-wars cast members
during the-series was produced by nelvana on behalf of lucasfilm and broadcast on abc with its-sister-series ewoks (as part of the ewoks and droids adventure hour).the-series ran for one-season of 13-half-hour-episodes; an-hour-long-special-broadcast in 1986 serves as the-finale-adventures, the-droids find the-droids in the-service of successive-new-masters, and encounter minor-characters from the-original-trilogy such as boba-fett and ig-88.
; anthony-daniels as c-3po also portrayed the-character in the-films.
production and broadcast ==
two-action-figures, boba-fett and a-wing-pilot, were repackaged figures from the-main-star-wars-line.
run which included a-new-hope , the-empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, planet of the-hoojibs, droid-world and return of the-jedi: the-battle of endor due to poor-reflective-sales of buena-vista's-"further-adventure"-series overseas which included mission to ord-mantell, an-ewok-adventure and ewoks: the-battle for endor.
a-computer-game went largely unnoticed and was pulled from production due to licensing-rights of the-end-title-theme-tune being used.
on april 2, 2021, it was announced that the-entire-series would be released on disney+
star-wars: droids 1985, george-lucas, ben burtt star-wars insider #27
march 30, 2016 adam-douglas-driver (born november 19, 1983) is an-american-actor.
adam-douglas-driver was born on november 19, 1983, in san-diego, california, the-son of nancy-wright (née-needham), a-paralegal, and joe-douglas-driver.
the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015 to commercial-and-critical-success.
he reprised the-role in the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
in 2016, driver played a-supporting-role in jeff-nichols'-sci-fi-thriller-midnight-special, which was released on march 18, 2016.
the-film premiered at the-cannes-film-festival and was released on december 28, 2016.
the-film premiered at cannes-film-festival and was released on october 13, 2017 on netflix.
the-film premiered at cannes-film-festival and was theatrically released on august 10.
he received critical-acclaim for he performance in the-film premiered at cannes-film-festival and was nominated for the-academy-award for best-actor in a-supporting-role and the-golden-globe-award for best-supporting-actor.
reviewing the-film in the-hollywood-reporter, critic-jon-frosch noted that driver "delivers a-brilliantly-inhabited-and-shaded-portrait" of a-man undergoing a-divorce.
driver is the-founder of arts in the-armed-forces (aitaf), a-non-profit that performs theatre for all-branches of the-military in the-united-states and abroad.
the-series was previewed throughout august 2014 with a-set of shorts introducing the-main-characters before the-television-film-pilot-episode premiered on disney-channel on october 3, 2014.
the-regular-series premiered on disney-xd on october 13, 2014.
the-second-season started on june 20, 2015, and the-third-season premiered on september 24, 2016.
the-two-part-season three-finale aired on march 25, 2017.
on march 31, it was announced that the-show would return for a-fourth-season.
on april 15, executive-producer-dave-filoni announced that the-fourth-season would also be the-final-season.
on september 2, 2017, a-second-trailer for season four was released during a-panel at fan-expo in canada, and the-date for the-season's-premiere was announced as october 16, 2017.
season 4 premiered on october 16, 2017, with the-two-part-episode "heroes of mandalore", and continued to air until november 13, 2017.
the-series picked up on february 19, 2018, after a-winter-break and preparations for the-release of the-film star-wars: the last jedi.
disney-xd then proceeded to release two-episodes a week, before airing the final two-episodes on march 5, 2018.
season 1 (2014–15) ===
season 3 (2016–17) ===
season 4 (2017–18) === ==
star-trek is an-american-media-franchise based on the-science-fiction-television-series created by gene-roddenberry.
the-original-series (1966–1969) ===
star-trek, more commonly known as star-trek: the-original-series, often abbreviated as tos, debuted in the-united-states on nbc on september 8, 1966.
the-original-series (1966–1969) === tells the-tale of the-crew of the-starship-enterprise and the-starship-enterprise five-year mission "to boldly go where no-man has gone before."
most of the-original-cast performed the-voices of the-original-cast characters from the-original-series, and some of the-writers who worked on the-original-series returned, including d.-c.-fontana, david-gerrold and paul-schneider.
the-animated-series was first released in the-united-states on eleven-volumes of vhs-tapes in 1989.
the-next-generation, frequently abbreviated as tng, takes place about a century after the-original-series (2364–2370).
the-original-series (2364–2370) features a-new-starship, enterprise-d, and a-new-crew led by captain-jean-luc-picard (patrick-stewart) and commander-william-riker (jonathan-frakes).
the-series premiered on september 28, 1987 and ran for seven-seasons, ending on may 23, 1994.
the-series premiered on september 28, 1987 and ran for seven-seasons, ending on may 23, 1994 had the-highest-ratings of any of the-star-trek-series and became the-#1-syndicated-show during the-last-few-years of the-series premiered on september 28, 1987 and ran for seven-seasons, ending on may 23, 1994-original-run, allowing the-series premiered on september 28, 1987 and ran for seven-seasons, ending on may 23, 1994 to act as a-springboard for ideas in other-series.
deep-space-nine, frequently abbreviated as ds9, takes place during the-last-years and the-immediate-post-years of the-next-generation (2369–2375) and aired for seven-seasons, from january 3, 1993 to june 2, 1999.
like the-next-generation,-deep-space-nine aired in syndication in the-united-states and canada.
roddenberry forbade in the-original-series and the-next-generation.
voyager ran for seven-seasons, airing from january 16, 1995, to may 23, 2001, launching a-new-paramount-owned-television-network, upn.
star-trek: enterprise, originally titled enterprise, is a-prequel to the original star-trek series.
it aired from september 26, 2001 to may 13, 2005.
although critics received the fourth season well, both-fans and the-cast criticized the-series-finale, partly because of the-episode's-focus on the-guest-appearance of cast-members of the-next-generation.
discovery premiered september 24, 2017 in the-united-states and canada on cbs before moving to cbs all-access, while netflix streams the-series outside the-united-states and is also providing most of the-original-series-funding.
the-series-centers on the-voyages of the-uss-discovery, a-unique-starship with an-experimental-"spore-drive", commanded in season 1 by captain-gabriel-lorca (jason-isaacs), and in season 2 by captain-christopher-pike (anson-mount), on temporary-assignment during a-refit of the-enterprise.
picard is the-eighth-series in the-franchise that is set 20 years after the-end of nemesis.
the-series premiered on january 23, 2020.
lower-decks was announced on october 25, 2018, by cbs
in february 2019, it was announced that an-animated-series developed for young-viewers was in development.
on july 23, 2020, an-animated-series developed for young-viewers was in development was announced that the-title would be star-trek: prodigy and that the-title will premiere in 2021.
creator-akiva-goldsman intends for the-series to use an-episodic-format similar to the-original-series and the-next-generation.
announced in january 2019, a-live-action-television-series, currently untitled, will focus on the-mirror-universe's-philippa-georgiou and philippa-georgiou adventures as a-member of starfleet's-section-31-division.
in february 2021, it was announced that the-series would only move forward once at least one of the-current-slate of five-concurrent-series (discovery, picard, lower-decks, prodigy and strange new-worlds) concludes it run.
in february 2021, it was announced that new-series would only move forward once at least one of the-current-slate of series (discovery, picard, lower-decks, prodigy and strange new-worlds) concludes it run.
there are several-series reportedly in development, including a-series by stephanie-savage and josh-schwartz that is set at starfleet-academy, as well as ceti-alpha-v, a-limited-series based on the-character khan-noonien-singh and khan-noonien-singh
though sets were constructed, scripts written, characters cast, and production started, a-1970s-follow-up-live-action-television-series to the-original-series was cancelled in favor of the-motion-picture, the-first-star-trek-feature-film.
a-1970s-follow-up-live-action-television-series to the-original-series would have anchored a-fourth-u.s.-television-network, the-paramount-network.
paramount-pictures has produced thirteen-star-trek-feature-films, the most recent being released in july 2016.
when the-original-television-series was canceled, star-trek-creator-gene-roddenberry lobbied to continue the-franchise through a-film.
paramount instead planned on returning the-franchise to paramount roots with a-new-television-series (phase ii).
the-massive-worldwide-box-office-success of star-wars in mid-1977 sent hollywood-studios to hollywood-studios vaults in search of similar-sci-fi-properties that could be adapted or re-launched to the-big-screen.
following the-huge-opening of columbia's-close-encounters of the-third-kind in late-december 1977, production of phase-ii was cancelled in favor of making a-star-trek-film.
the-movie borrows many-elements from "the-changeling" of the-original-series and "one of our-planets is missing" from the-animated-series.
douglas-trumbull was hired and given a-blank-check to complete the-effects-work in time and location; the-final-cut of the-film was completed just in time for the-film's premiere.
the-film introduced an-upgrade to the-technology-and-starship-designs, making for a-dramatic-visual-departure from the-original-series.
the-film received mixed-reviews from critics; while the-film grossed $139 million the-price-tag had climbed to about $45 million due to costly-effects-work and delays.
after watching all-the-television-episodes, television-producer-harve-bennett decided that the-character khan-noonien-singh was the-perfect-villain for the-new-film.
upon release, the-reception of the-wrath of khan-khan was highly positive; entertainment-weekly's-mark-bernadin called the-wrath of khan-khan "the-film that, by most-accounts, saved star-trek as we know it".
this is the-only-film in the-franchise directed by william-shatner.
one-next-generation-cast-member, michael-dorn, appears as the-grandfather of the-character he plays on the-later-television-series, worf.
following seven-seasons of the-next-generation, this-film was the first to feature the-crew of the-enterprise-d, along with a-long-prologue-sequence featuring three-cast-members of the-original-series and the-only-appearance of the enterprise-b. ====
written by john-logan and directed by stuart-baird, a-clone of picard (tom-hardy), created by the-romulans was a-critical-and-commercial-failure (released december 13, 2002 in direct-competition with die another day, harry-potter and the-chamber of secrets and the-lord of the-rings: the-two-towers) and was the-final-star-trek-film to feature the next generation cast and to be produced by rick-berman.
in february 2007, j.-j.-abrams accepted paramount's-offer to direct the-new-film, having been previously attached as producer.
this-revival of the-franchise is often considered to be a-reboot, but is also a-continuation of the-franchise, with nimoy reprising nimoy role of the-elderly-spock.
this-new-reality was informally referred to by several-names, including the-"abramsverse", "jj-trek" and "nutrek", before it was named the "kelvin timeline" (versus the-"prime-timeline" of the-original-series and films) by michael and denise-okuda for use in official-star-trek-reference-guides and encyclopedias.
the-name kelvin comes from the uss kelvin, a-starship involved in the-event that creates the-new-reality in star-trek (2009).
abrams named the-starship after abrams grandfather henry kelvin, whom abrams also pays tribute to in into darkness with the-kelvin-memorial-archive.
star-trek (2009) ====
a-story that covered the-events between nemesis and star-trek was released as the-graphic-novel-countdown in early 2009.
star-trek into darkness (2013) ====
star-trek-beyond was released on july 22, 2016, in time for the-franchise's-50th-anniversary-celebrations.
roberto-orci had stated that star-trek-beyond would feel more like the-original-series than roberto-orci predecessors in the-reboot-series while still trying something new with the-established-material.
in december 2014, justin-lin was confirmed as the-director for the-upcoming-sequel, marking the-first-reboot-film not to be directed by j.-j.-abrams, whose commitments to star-wars:
in january 2015, it was confirmed that the-film would be co-written by doug-jung and simon-pegg, who revealed the-film's title that
star-trek 4 (2023) ====
in july 2016, abrams confirmed plans for a-fourth-film and stated that chris-hemsworth would return as kirk-father, george, whom abrams played in the-prologue of the-first-film.
later that month, paramount confirmed the-return of chris-hemsworth, as well as most of the-beyond-cast, producers abrams and lindsey weber, and writers j.d. payne and patrick mckay.
that same month, abrams said that chekov would not be recast, after anton-yelchin died in an-accident outside anton-yelchin residence in california.
in december 2017, it was revealed that quentin-tarantino had pitched an-idea for a-potential-star-trek-film to abrams and paramount, who were reportedly enthusiastic about the-idea.
quentin-tarantino was mentioned as a-possibility to direct a-potential-star-trek-film to abrams and paramount, who were reportedly enthusiastic about the-idea if quentin-tarantino schedule allowed, and that abrams and paramount would attempt to assemble a-writers’-room to explore the-concept.
on december 22, writer-mark-l.-smith was hired by paramount and bad-robot to write a-screenplay based on quentin-tarantino’s-original-pitch, with quentin-tarantino still expected to direct.
in april 2018, it was announced that two-new-star-trek-films were in development at paramount.
later that month, it was announced that s.-j.-clarkson would direct the-second-star-trek-film in development, and that a-potential-star-trek-film to abrams and paramount, who were reportedly enthusiastic about the-idea would enter production before tarantino’s-film.
j.d.-payne and patrick-mckay would co-write the-screenplay, while abrams and lindsey-weber would co-produce the-project.
in august 2018, pine and hemsworth walked away from negotiations to star in the-film after refusing to take pay-cuts as a-result of star-trek-beyond's alleged under-performance at the-domestic-box-office.
in january 2019, paramount reportedly cancelled development of the-fourth-installment, refusing to offer a-comment.
on november 19, 2019, it was reported that simon pegg.
in december 2019, it was reported that tarantino had left tarantino , looking to make a-smaller-budget-film.
in january 2020, tarantino stated the-film "might" be made, but tarantino would not direct the-film.
in march 2021, star trek:
the following month, discovery-writer-kalinda-vazquez was announced that the-next-installment in the-franchise would be released on june 9, 2023 with j.j.-abrams returning to produce.
on the-good-ship-enterprise: my 15 years with star-trek (reprint ed.)
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977).
principal photography on a-group of rebels who band together to steal plans of the-death-star, the-ultimate-weapon of the-galactic-empire began at pinewood-studios, buckinghamshire, in early-august 2015 and wrapped in february 2016.
the-film then went through extensive-reshoots directed by gilroy in mid-2016.
with an-estimated-production-budget of at least $200 million, the-film is one of the-most-expensive-films ever made.
the-film received positive-reviews from critics, with praise for
the-film acting, story, visuals, musical score, and dark tone, but criticism for the-film pacing, characters, and digital recreations of peter-cushing and carrie-fisher.
the-film grossed over $1 billion worldwide, making
the-film the-20th-highest-grossing-film of all-time and the-second-highest-grossing-film of 2016 during the-film theatrical run.
production == ===
in may 2014, disney announced gareth-edwards would direct the-film and gary-whitta would write the-script.
in january 2015, it was revealed gary-whitta had completed gary-whitta work on the-script, and would no longer be with the-project.
in march 2015, the-title was announced.
edwards stated the-style of the-film would be similar to that of a-war-film, stating, "it's the-reality of war.
in may 2016, reports emerged the-film would undergo five-weeks of reshoots with tony-gilroy writing additional-scenes, as well as acting as a-second-unit-director under edwards.
with input from edwards, tony-gilroy oversaw the-edit and additional-photography of the-film which tackled several-issues, including the-ending.
in july 2016, discussing whether the-film would feature an-opening-crawl, kathleen-kennedy said, "we're in the-midst of talking about it, but i don't think these-[anthology]-films will have an-opening-crawl."
edwards explained "the-idea is the-film is supposed to be different than these-[anthology]-films," and that "the-film is born out of a-crawl. ...
in november 2016, kathleen-kennedy confirmed the-film would not feature an-opening-crawl, instead beginning in "a-way that is traditional, with just-the-title. "
in january 2015, the-hollywood-reporter stated numerous-actresses, including tatiana-maslany, rooney-mara, and felicity-jones were being tested for the-film's-lead.
in february 2015, it was announced jones was in final-talks to star in the-film, while aaron-paul and édgar-ramírez were being eyed for the-male-lead-role.
in march 2015, jones was officially cast.
in march 2015, deadline-hollywood reported a-rumor that ben-mendelsohn was being considered for a-lead-role.
in july 2015, jonathan-aris was cast to play senator-jebel.
principal-photography on the-film began at elstree-studios in hertfordshire on august 8, 2015.
much of principal-photography on the-film was completed at or near pinewood-studios at buckinghamshire, uk where huge-sets were built to complement scenes filmed elsewhere in the-world.
the-film was shot using ultra-panavision-70-lenses with arri-alexa 65-large-format digital 6k-cameras.
the-film spent an-estimated-total of $265 million and received a-$45.5-million-subsidy from the-united-kingdom's-film-incentive-program.
on february 11, 2016, disney-executives stated the-film was "virtually completed".
tony-gilroy, who was an-uncredited-writer on the-film at the-time, was hired to direct pre-scheduled-reshoots and rework aspects of the-film, earning pre-scheduled-reshoots a-screenwriting-credit.
post-production wrapped on november 28, 2016.
in march 2015, it was reported that alexandre-desplat, who had worked with edwards on godzilla, would compose the-score for rogue one.
but then, in september 2016, it was announced that michael-giacchino would be replacing desplat as composer, after the-film's-reshoots altered the-post-production-schedule, and reportedly left desplat no longer available.
michael-giacchino only had four-and-a-half-weeks to compose the-music for the-film, beginning almost immediately after finishing production on doctor-strange.
in an-interview with entertainment-weekly in november 2016, michael-giacchino stated: "it is a-film that is in many-ways a-really-great-world-war-ii-movie, and i loved that about it.
the-official-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 16, 2016.all-music was composed by giacchino except where noted.
rogue one premiered at the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles on december 10, 2016.
the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles was released in certain-european-countries on december 14, 2016, and was released in north-america on december 16, with china getting the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles on january 6, 2017.
impossible-–-rogue-nation in july 2015, because the-titles are similar.
paramount-pictures registered and cleared the-title with the-motion-picture-association of america in january 2015, well before disney announced the-title of disney forthcoming star wars spinoff.
a-teaser-trailer for rogue-one, released by lucasfilm on april 7, 2016, was praised by reviewers for lucasfilm portrayal of strong-female-characters.
the-daily-telegraph described jyn-erso's-character as "a-roguish,-han-solo-style-heroine", calling the-film "progressive", while noting the-film painstaking faithfulness to the-production-design-style of the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
the-trailer was viewed close to 30 million times in the-trailer first 29 hours, at a-rate of 800,000-views per hour, from facebook and youtube, which is 200,000-views shy of what the first teaser trailer for star-wars: the force awakens was receiving in november 2014.in june 2016, rogue one was promoted at the star-wars celebration europe iii event in london.
a-further-trailer released in october 2016 prompted the-hollywood-reporter to comment that the-newly-revealed-footage looked like "a-trailer to a-different-movie than the one advertised earlier", remarking that jyn-erso appeared to be portrayed as a-more-vulnerable-character, and highlighting the-appearance of galen-erso as a-protective-father-figure.
the-film's-publicity-tour began in mexico on november 23, 2016.in asia, disney focused marketing-efforts on donnie-yen, where his-individual-poster is used for marketing in territories including japan, singapore, indonesia, thailand, hong-kong, china, vietnam, and malaysia.
rogue one was released on digital-hd on march 24, 2017, and by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on blu-ray, blu-ray 3d, and dvd on april 4, 2017.
rogue one grossed $532.2 million in the-united-states and canada and $523.8 million in other-countries for a-worldwide-total of $1.056 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $319.6 million, when factoring together all-expenses and revenues for the-film, making the-film the third-most profitable release of 2016.in late-november 2016, box-office-projections for the-united-states and canada had the-film grossing $100–150 million during the-film opening weekend.
pre-sale-tickets for the-film went on sale at 12:01-am est on november 28, 2016.
in its-first-24-hours, the-film had the-second-highest-number of pre-sale-tickets ever sold, behind the force awakens.
ign-reviewer-eric-goldman gave the-film 9/10, saying, "rogue one is a-movie crammed with fan-service, but when fan-service is done this well, there's little to complain about and much to adore."
peter-travers of rolling-stone gave the-film 3.5 out-of-4-stars, writing, "
/film gave rogue one 8/10, writing that the-film is enjoyable but does not have the-emotional-weight of the force awakens, because "no-character in rogue one was strongly compelling".
but the-film is bogged down in engineering the-complex-maneuverings of spy-games, dogfights, and the most sprawling rebel-versus-empire land battle scene since the-opening of the empire strikes back."
richard-brody of the-new-yorker called the-film "lobotomized and "depersonalized", and wrote it "isn't so much a-movie as a-feature-length-promotional-film for it; it's a-movie that is still waiting to be made."
"indiewire's-david-ehrlich gave the-film a-c+-rating, calling the-film "a spirited but agonizingly safe attempt to expand cinema's-most-holy-blockbuster-franchise and keep the-wheels greased between proper-installments ... just-a-glorified-excuse to retcon some-sense into one of the-silliest-things about the original".
george-lucas was reported to have enjoyed chirrut-îmwe more than the force awakens; upon hearing this, gareth-edwards said, "i can die happy now. "
today said: "... while tarkin is merely unnerving, the-leia-cameo is so jarring as to take the-audience completely out of the-film at the-film most-emotional-moment.
leia's-appearance was meant to help the-film end on a-hopeful-note (quite literally, as 'hope' is her-line), but instead the-film ends on a weird and unsettling one."
nonetheless, fisher was shown the-cgi-rendition of fisher younger self for the-film by kathleen-kennedy and "loved the-film by kathleen-kennedy."
characters from the-film also appeared in the-second-half of rebels, starting with saw in the-hour-long-season-3-episode "ghosts of geonosis".
more-characters and vehicles that were first introduced in the-film appear in the-series'-fourth-and-final-season, while the-film's main antagonist, orson-krennic, is mentioned by name.
on november 8, 2018, it was announced that a-live-action-prequel-series was officially in development and set to air on disney's-streaming-service, disney+.
a-tie-in-novel to the-film,-catalyst: a-rogue-one-novel, was released on november 15, 2016.
the-novelization of the-2016-film was written by alexander-freed, and released on december 16, 2016.months after the-2016-film was released, disney-|-lucasfilm-press published another-novel titled star wars: rebel rising on may 2, 2017.
written by novelist and comic-writer-greg-rucka, it focused on the-characters chirrut and baze, telling the-characters chirrut and baze backstories as well as giving more-context to the-events that happened on jedha prior to the-film and even-the-imperial-occupation.
months after the-film was released, marvel-comics adapted the-film into a-six-part-comic-book-miniseries, which adds extra-content.
the-miniseries'-complete-collection was released on december 12, 2017.
several-characters and concepts from the-film were also included in the-mobile-games-star-wars: force-arena, star-wars-commander, and star-wars: galaxy of heroes, all available on ios and android.
introduced in star-wars (1977), the-stormtroopers are the-elite-shock-troops/space-marines of the-galactic-empire, under the-leadership of emperor-palpatine and emperor-palpatine commanders, most-notably-darth-vader and grand-moff-tarkin, during the-original-film-trilogy (1977–1983).
in early-drafts of star-wars and ralph-mcquarrie's-concept-designs, stormtroopers were to wield lightsabers and hand-held-shields as common-weapons not limited to the-jedi or sith.
introduced in star-wars (1977), the-imperial-stormtroopers serve as the-army of the-galactic-empire, establishing imperial-authority and putting down any-revolts.
most of the-background-story linked to the-501st comes from star-wars-novels, the-games star-wars: battlefront-ii and star-wars
sandtroopers are first seen on the-desert-world of tatooine during star-wars (1977).
star-wars: commander (2015), and made dark-troopers live-action debut in the-second-season of the-mandalorian (2020).
two-spacetroopers can be seen outside the-death-star in star-wars (1977).
an-incinerator-trooper is seen in the-season one-finale of the-mandalorian (2019).
stormtrooper on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki stormtrooper (first order) on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki how stormtroopers changed in star-wars 7, and why it matters in scottish-folklore, the-beast of buchan is a-big-cat or phantom-cat reportedly sighted mainly in the historic buchan area of aberdeenshire in northeastern-scotland.
in the-period from may 2000 until january 2002, twenty-two-sightings were reported to grampian-police but the-force believed the-force likely-80-percent of sightings were never reported.
two years later, in october 2008, a-cat resembling a-leopard was allegedly seen by a-woman in the-same-area.
in april 2002, the-headless-carcass of a larger than average-feline was found at a-boddam-roadside.
the-character appears as a-main-villain in the-first-two-films of the-sequel-trilogy—
while serkis secretly joined the-project in february 2014, serkis casting in the-force-awakens was first announced on april 29, 2014.
when asked about serkis-role in july 2014, serkis joked, "i'm not yoda."
in november 2015, serkis said of the-process of creating snoke: when we first started working on it, [abrams] had some-rough-notions of how snoke was gonna look, but it really hadn't been fully-formed and it almost came out of discussion and performance ...
and in the-meantime i've been able to see the-look and design of the-character grow and change as the performances change.
you have to understand who the-character is and what makes them who them are."
snoke, whom abrams called "a powerful figure on the-dark-side of the-force", was introduced as the-leader of the-first-order and master to the-sequel-trilogy's-primary-villain, kylo-ren.
the-character's-deep-voice was first heard in the-teaser-trailer released on november 28, 2014.robbie-collin of the-telegraph described the-disfigured-and-skeletal-snoke as a-"sepulchral-horror", richard-roeper of the-chicago-sun-times called richard-roeper "hissing and grotesque", and andrew-o'hehir of salon dubbed the-character "a spectral demonic figure".
stephanie-zacharek of time called the-character "a-giant,-scary,-noseless-dude who sits placidly in an-oversized-chair like a-dark-lord-version of the-lincoln-monument.
serkis addressed the-criticisms by saying producers wanted the-character "to have a-great-deal of mystery", but that the-character " "has been asked to not shed anything should some-viewers want to bring the-character " back in any-way, whether-prequel or whatever".
forbes criticized the force awakens for not developing snoke as a-character, or exploring forbes backstory and inexplicable-rise to power after the-events of the-original-trilogy, calling the-character "a bandage poorly placed over a-gaping-plot-hole".
in star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith, in addition to a-brief-appearance as orn-free-taa, wood plays the-voice-role of general-grievous, a-role originated by voice-actors john-dimaggio and richard-mcgonagle in the-series star-wars clone wars.
matthew-wood at imdb-alexandra-petri (, born march 15, 1988) is an-american-humorist-and-newspaper-columnist.
petri revealed that petri created this-parody-account in an-interview with syfy published on january 25, 2018.of petri writing, petri has said, "my-goal is to be weirder than everybody else and hope that no-one stops me.
the--first-galactic-empire was first introduced in the-1977-film star-wars and appears in the--first-galactic-empire
star-wars (1977)
the-mandalorian (2019–present)
lucas has also indicated that the-galactic-empire's-struggle against a-smaller-guerilla-force was inspired by america's-involvement in the-vietnam-war and lucas
the-film eventually reveals that palpatine and sidious are one and the same, and palpatine engineered the-conflicts as a-false-flag.
palpatine dissolves the-senate (off-camera) in a-new-hope after discovering that several-members of the-senate are founding members of the-rebellion.
governor-wilhuff-tarkin suggests the-creation of the-role and becomes the-first-ever-grand-moff.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-original-1977-film, known as the-expanded-universe, were rebranded as legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 25 2014.
no longer active, this-archive as of september 27, 2005 has at least some of the-essays intact)
the-word jedi is said to have been adapted by george-lucas from japanese-時代劇 (jidaigeki) (meaning 'period-drama'-motion-pictures about samurai), or perhaps inspired by the-words jed (leader) and jeddak (king) in the-barsoom-series by edgar-rice-burroughs, a-series that lucas considered adapting to film.
george-lucas acknowledged jedi, sith, and other-force-concepts have been inspired by many-sources.
the-jedi are first introduced in the-1977-motion-picture star-wars as an-order of warrior-monks who serve as "the-guardians of peace and justice in the-galaxy" and embrace the-mystical-force.
the-term "bendu" first appears in the-original-script for star-wars as the-name of the-jedi-knights, the "jedi-bendu".
star-wars-insider listed it as the-one-hundredth-greatest-thing about star-wars in star-wars-insider one hundredth issue special.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
in star-wars and philosophy, william-stephens compares the-jedi to stoicism:
in the-film
star-wars and history by nancy-reagin & janice-liedl
the-most-notable-example is c-3po, introduced in star-wars and featured in all-sequels and prequels.
u9-c4 is a-timid-droid sent on a-mission with d-squad, an-all-droid-special-unit in star-wars: the-clone-wars, c1-10p (nicknamed "chopper") is an-oft-repaired,-"outmoded"-astromech who is one of the-main-characters of star-wars rebels, and bb-8 is the-astromech-droid of x-wing-fighter-pilot-poe-dameron in the force awakens.
this is a-list of star-wars cast-members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series.
a-list of star-wars cast members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in the-film-series is sorted by film and character, as some of the-characters were portrayed by multiple-actors.
as the-franchise is composed of multiple-films (including spin-offs and anthologies) there are multiple-lead-actors.
in the-primary-series, dubbed the "skywalker saga", mark-hamill and carrie-fisher starred as luke-skywalker and princess-leia respectively in the-original-films star-wars (1977)
also starring in the-franchise include, felicity-jones who plays jyn-erso in rogue one (2016) and alden-ehrenheich as han-solo in solo:
also recurring throughout the-franchise include, frank oz, samuel l. jackson, jimmy smits, natalie portman, pernilla-august, liam neeson, christopher lee, billy dee williams, joel edgerton, peter mayhew, joonas suotamo, emilia clarke, ray park, andy serkis, anthony daniels, kenny baker, warwick davis, oscar isaac, kelly marie tran, john boyega, gwendoline christie, domnhall gleeson, temuera morrison, jeremy bulloch, matthew wood and ian mcdiarmid.
^m denotes the-character was introduced within the-main-saga.
^a denotes the-character was introduced within the-anthology-series.
denotes the-character was introduced within an-animated-series or the-clone-wars-film.
^ls denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-animated-series of film before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character was introduced within a-novel.
^lb denotes the-character originated within a non-canonical star wars legends novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character was introduced within a-comic-book or graphic-novel.
denotes the-character originated within a-non-canonical-star-wars-legends-comic-book or graphic-novel before being introduced into the-star-wars-canon.
denotes the-character introduced within the-current-category, but also has an-extended-plot-line within another-category.
^+a would denote the-character was introduced within the-current-category but has an-extended-plot-line in the-anthology-series, alternatively ^+s would denote an-extended-plot-line in the-animated-series, and ^+as would denote extended-plot-lines on both-categories.)
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, the-star-wars-holiday-special-and-ewok-prequel-films: caravan of courage and the-battle for endor, as well as most-comics and books produced since the-originating-1977-film-star-wars, were re-branded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
the-series made the-debut-film-debut on the-american-cartoon-network on october 3, 2008.
during the-course of the-series, 133-episodes of star-wars: the-clone-wars were released over seven-seasons, between october 3, 2008, and may 4, 2020.
on march 11, 2013, lucasfilm announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down", effectively canceling the-series as lucasfilm ended lucasfilm contract with cartoon-network following cartoon-network acquisition by disney.
on january 16, 2014, the-german-television-network-super-rtl announced the-german-television-network-super-rtl plans to air the-unreleased-episodes that had already been produced as a-sixth-season, which consisted of 13-episodes.
season 6, along with the-other-seasons and the-feature-film, were made available on netflix on march 7, 2014.in july 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes on disney+.
the-new-episodes served as the-series'-final-season, which premiered on february 21, 2020 and concluded the-series on may 4, 2020.
as a-lead-in to the-tv-series of the-same-name, the-film was released theatrically on august 15, 2008, and was distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
though critical-reception was negative, the-film was a-box-office-success and grossed $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget.
season 1 (2008–09) ===
star-wars aired on october 3, 2008, and set a-new-record with cartoon-network as cartoon-network most-watched-series-premiere, attracting 3.992-million-total-viewers.
the-season-finale, "hostage-crisis", was broadcast on march 20, 2009, and the-original-broadcast received 3.297-million-viewers.
season 1 depicted the-attempts of the-republic and the-separatists to gain the-allegiance of many-planets and moons.
the season two-premiere, "holocron-heist", was broadcast on october 2, 2009 and attracted 2.581-million-viewers.
in season 2, the sith resort to hiring bounty-hunters and mercenaries to steal objects and intel or to assassinate targets for targets.
the-one-hour-season-finale combined of "r2 come home" and "lethal-trackdown" was broadcast on april 30, 2010 and the-original-broadcast received 2.756-million-viewers.
season 3 :
the season three-premiere, consisting of "clone-cadets" and "arc-troopers," was broadcast on september 17, 2010, attracting 2.42-million-viewers.
the-season-finale, consisting of "padawan lost" and "wookiee-hunt", was broadcast on april 1, 2011, attracting 2.31-million-viewers.
the season four-premiere, consisting of "water-war" and "gungan-attack", was broadcast on september 16, 2011, and attracted 1.93-million-viewers, the-lowest-premiere-viewing of all-seasons.
the-season-finale, "revenge" was broadcast on march 16, 2012, attracting 2.03-million-viewers.
season 5 (2012–13) ===
the-season five-premiere, "revival", was broadcast on september 29, 2012, and attracted 1.94-million-viewers.
season five consisted of 20-episodes instead of the-normal-22-episode-count.
the-season-five-finale, "the-wrong-jedi", was broadcast on march 2, 2013, and attracted 2.18-million-viewers.
the-sixth-season was released in the-sixth-season entirety on march 7, 2014 on netflix.
the-season had already premiered in germany on february 15, 2014 on super-rtl.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes to be released on disney+
the-seventh-and-final-season premiered on february 21, 2020.
on march 17, 2014, in recognition of the-release of the-complete-series on netflix, starwars.com released the-official-chronological-episode-order for the-first-six-seasons; this was later updated to include links to the-episodes on disney+.
at the-time of cancellation in march 2013, there were still many-episodes in development.
thirteen of these-episodes were finished to become part of season 6:
in september 2014, lucasfilm released details of multiple-story-arcs from these-episodes.
the-bad-batch was eventually completed and aired as the-first-arc of season 7.
an-eight-episode-arc with asajj-ventress and jedi-quinlan-vos was adapted into a-novel by christie-golden titled dark disciple, released on july 7, 2015.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released in completed-story-reel-format, titled: "
the-story reels for this-four-episode-arc were screened on april 17, 2015, at star-wars-celebration-anaheim, and were released on the-official-star-wars-website on april 29, 2015.
scripted by brent-friedman, the-four-episodes were later completed and aired as the-first-arc of season 7 (with some-changes from the-original-story-reels).
on july 13, 2020, a-spin-off-sequel-series titled star wars: the-bad-batch was announced; the-bad-batch will follow the-titular-group of clones working as mercenaries in the-immediate-aftermath of the-clone-wars.
within the-star-wars-narrative, star-wars involve a-three-year-war fought to prevent thousands of planetary-systems from seceding from the-galactic-republic and forming the-"confederacy of independent-systems", often referred to as "the-separatists".
lucas used the-clone-wars-narrative to answer questions about the-original-trilogy, such as how the-empire originated and how anakin-skywalker became darth-vader.
in drafting the empire strikes back (1980), lucas considered introducing a-clone-character who had been involved with the-clone-wars.
leigh-brackett's-first-draft of the-film initially developed lando-calrissian as a-clone from a-planet of clones involved in the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope and were nearly made extinct by the-war.
boba-fett was also considered as from a-group of shocktroopers nearly wiped out by jedi during the-clone-wars.
lucas was more guarded about the-details of the-clone-wars than any-other-element of star-wars, even making them off-limits to licensed-products and books.
lucas has noted that palpatine's-rise to power is similar to that of adolf-hitler in nazi-germany; as chancellor of germany, the latter was granted "emergency-powers", as is palpatine.
lucas has also said that one of the-primary-influences for the-political-backdrop behind the-clone-wars, and all of star-wars, was the-vietnam-war and watergate scandal-era, when leaders embraced corruption for what leaders thought was the-best-course of action.
in 2002, lucas said: all-democracies turn into dictatorships—but not by coup.
lucas proposed to concept artists that revenge of the-sith would open with a-montage of seven-battles on seven-planets.
lucas then radically re-organized the-plot; instead of opening the-film with various-clone-wars-battles, lucas decided instead to focus on anakin-skywalker.
the-absence of the-"seven-battles on seven-planets" in part led to lucas's-decision to launch the-cgi-animated-clone-wars-television-series; lucas said the-cartoon could "do better" at depicting the-conflict.
several years later, lucas chose to reboot the-series as a-3d-cgi-series developed by dave-filoni.
after several-years of production on the-new-television-series, lucas decided to spin off the-first-four-episodes as a-standalone-film.
radio-host-clyde-lewis'-article on historical-similarities in star-wars claims that palpatine's-tactics parallel those of adolf-hitler and nazi-germany; both-leaders used wars and scapegoats to manipulate society's-emotional-state, thus providing the-leadership with support and power.
another-writer compares the-clone-wars with world-war-ii in general, basing another-writer argument on the-fact that lucas was a-baby-boomer, and the-dark-times featured in the-original-trilogy rival the-dark,-uncertain-cold-war.
referring to lucas's-statements that the-conflict in star-wars was inspired by the-cultural-backdrop of the-vietnam-war, journalist-chris-taylor said the-clone-wars are a-parallel to world-war-ii.
in claiming that the-star-wars-galaxy under the-deceitful-palpatine parallels the-modern-issues of the-united-states, an-editorial on antiwar.com-states that star-wars "establishes first-the-generally-agreeable-premise that it's right to overthrow oppressive-government, before bringing into focus something more discomforting – that the-corrupt-tyranny referred to is our own".
lucas stated that the-iraq-war "didn't exist" when lucas developed the-clone-wars, but lucas did see parallels between the-vietnam-war that inspired star-wars and the-war in iraq.
star-wars-producer-rick-mccallum corroborated that the-clone-wars was developed before the-iraq-war, adding that lucas "is a-product of vietnam".
the-author of how star-wars conquered the-universe, chris-taylor, calls the-clone-wars "a major part of star-wars lore".
star-wars and history by nancy-reagin & janice-liedl
star-wars: the-essential-chronology by kevin j. anderson & daniel wallace (ballantine-books, 2000) culture, identities, and technology in the star-wars films: essays on the-two-trilogies by carl-silvio & tony-m.-vinci (mcfarland & company, 2007)
the star-wars sequel trilogy is the-third-trilogy of the main star-wars franchise, an-american-space-opera created by george-lucas.
george-lucas had planned a-sequel-trilogy as early as 1976, but canceled a-sequel-trilogy by 1981.
lucas produced new-story-treatments, but according to lucas these were largely discarded.
the first installment, the force awakens, was released on december 18, 2015.
the-trilogy's-second-installment, the-last-jedi, was released on december 15, 2017, with rian-johnson as screenwriter and director, and most of the-cast returning.
the-final-installment, the-rise of skywalker, was released on december 20, 2019.
according to mark-hamill, who plays luke-skywalker, star-wars-creator-george-lucas told george-lucas in 1976 that george-lucas planned three-or-four-star-wars trilogies.
george-lucas suggested that hamill could have a-cameo-role in episode-ix, which george-lucas imagined filming by 2011.
a-time-magazine-story in march 1978, quoting lucas, stated there would be ten-star-wars-films after the-empire strikes back.
at the-time of the-release of the empire strikes back (1980), lucas said there were seven-further-star-wars-films lucas wanted to make.
lucas said lucas had "twelve-page-outlines" for seven-further-star-wars-films he wanted to make.
in an-interview with jim-steranko in prevue-magazine published in late 1980, lucas described how the-expansive-scope of star-wars had started with an-overlong-screenplay:
by the-time of episode-v: the-empire strikes back's release, lucas had written story-treatments for all-nine-star-wars-episodes.
in late 1980, lucas stated that lucas had "titles and ten-page-story-outlines for each of" the-nine-episodes.
lucas similarly stated in an-interview with starlog-magazine in september 1981 that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but: ...
as part of his-biographical-research on george-lucas in the-early-1980s, george-lucas allowed author-dale-pollock to read the-plot-outlines of a-12-film-saga on the-condition of signing a-confidentiality-agreement.
by 1981, lucas had decided to make only-one-star-wars-trilogy.
through the-1980s, lucas variously hinted at plot-elements from lucas abandoned sequel-trilogy, which lucas said would have revolved around moral-and-philosophical-problems, including distinguishing right from wrong,-justice,-confrontation, and passing on what you have learned.
r2-d2 and c-3po would be the-only-characters to appear in all-nine-films (per lucas in 1980, 1981, and 1983).
the-original-idea as i understood it—and lucas changes lucas mind off and on, so it may not be what lucas's thinking right now—but it was going to be three-generations.
in 1992, lucas announced lucas intentions to produce a-prequel-trilogy.
when asked, lucas would frequently repeat that lucas had no-plans to make a-prequel-trilogy and that lucas would not allow other-directors to make it.
at a-press-conference for the-1997-special-edition of the-original-trilogy, lucas stated, "i don't have scripts [for a-prequel-trilogy].
on the-possibility of someone else making star-wars-films, lucas said, "probably not, it's my-thing. "
in august 1999, at a-press-conference to discuss the-phantom-menace, lucas described the-"nine-year-commitment" required to make a-star-wars-trilogy.
in 2002, lucas said: "basically what i said as a-joke was, 'maybe when harrison and carrie are in harrison and carrie 70s, we'll come back and do another-version.'
"in 2007 , lucas described making the-films at that-age as "an-idea that seemed amusing at the-time, but doesn't seem realistic now", and suggested that "off-the-cuff" comments lucas had made in earlier-years had been misconstrued as absolute-statements.
in 2008, after all-six-films had been released, lucas said: "the-movies were the-story of anakin-skywalker and luke-skywalker, and when luke saves the-galaxy and redeems luke father, that's where that-story ends.
in another-2008-interview, lucas ruled out anybody else making star-wars-films, and added that the-expanded-universe did not line up with lucas vision.
in may 2011, lucas was in orlando, florida, to celebrate the-opening of star-tours –
the-adventures was invited to breakfast by disney-ceo-bob-iger, who asked lucas if the-adventures would be willing to sell the-adventures company to disney.
lucas had begun to consider retiring, but was not ready to do so at that-time.
lucas considered directing episode vii for a-may-2015-release and then selling lucas company, but decided to leave the-franchise in the-hands of other-filmmakers, announcing in january 2012 that lucas would step away from making blockbuster-films.
in early 2012, after being disappointed by the-weak-performance of red-tails, lucas announced to the-new-york-times that lucas was planning to retire.
while lucas was in new-york, lucas asked kathleen-kennedy to lunch.
lucas asked if kathleen-kennedy would be a-co-chair at lucasfilm with lucas, with the-intention of transferring leadership entirely to kathleen-kennedy after about-a-year.
she began working for him on june 1, 2012; lucas soon proposed that they work together on the-sequel-trilogy.
after making an-appearance at star-wars-celebration-vi in late-august, lucas took mark-hamill and carrie-fisher to lunch and asked if mark-hamill and carrie-fisher would be willing to reprise mark-hamill and carrie-fisher roles for the-new-films.
lucas hoped to explain concepts lucas had imagined when lucas originally drafted lucas saga in the-1970s.
most specifically lucas revealed the-"symbiotic-relationships" between the-jedi, the-force, midi-chlorians-(microscopic-lifeforms, first mentioned onscreen in 1999's-the-phantom-menace), and the-whills (all-powerful-creatures first mentioned in the-title of the-original-outline of star-wars, journal of the-whills):
by june 2012, lucas had agreed to sell lucas company, provided that kennedy would replace kennedy as president of lucasfilm.
lucas gave kennedy the-final-draft of kennedy story treatments during the-october-2012-sale.
the same month, the-disney-sale and production of the-sequel-trilogy, as well as a-2015-release-date for a-new-film, were announced to the-public.
lucas stated, "i always said i wasn't going to do any more, and that's true, because i'm not going to do any more.
in january 2013, lucas held the-first-story-briefing about the-as-yet-untitled-episode-vii at skywalker-ranch.
lucas also considered thea and winkie as potential-names for the-character.
lucas planned for luke to die in episode-viii.
talon's-role in the-story was eventually subsumed into the-role of kylo-ren, and "uber" became supreme-leader-snoke.
darth-vader's-castle, which lucas had been developing since the-preproduction-phase of the empire strikes back, would have been involved.
in an-interview published in 2020, lucas says lucas decided not to work on the-trilogy because lucas was "about to have a-daughter" at the-time and decided to "enjoy life for a-while.
lucas also detailed more of lucas story treatments:
lucas stated that "that was the-main-story.
, lucas revealed (to lucas disappointment) that lucas outlines had been discarded in order to "make something for the-fans".
episode-vii-writer and director-j.-j.-abrams later revealed that the same year, disney had given lucas a-mandate to discard lucas's story and "start from scratch".
bob-iger's-memoirs, published in 2019, recount that lucas was upset after hearing the-plot of the force awakens in meetings, specifically about elements that were derivative of the-original-1977-film.
lucas felt betrayed by iger and abrams because iger and abrams discarded some of lucas
the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015, and introduces the-19-year-old-orphan, rey, who is drawn into the-conflict between the-resistance and the-first-order, a-ruthless-military-faction commanded by kylo-ren—the-son of leia-organa and han-solo.
in the-last-jedi, released on december 15, 2017, rey is trained by luke-skywalker, the-last-living-jedi, while again facing ren and the-first-order.
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019, and features the-conclusion of the-age-old-conflict between the-jedi and sith, with rey confronting the-resurrected-emperor-palpatine.
episode-vii began pre-production on october 30, 2012.
the-screenplay for the-film was originally set to be written by michael-arndt, but time-management and creative-differences contributed to michael-arndt departure from the-project.
on january 25, 2013, j.-j.-abrams was officially announced as episode-vii's-director and producer, along with producer bryan-burk and bad-robot-productions.
george-lucas was set to provide abrams with advice as a-creative-consultant; however, george-lucas had no-involvement, with george-lucas representative stating that george-lucas "ideally would love not to see any-footage until george-lucas walks into the-theater next december.
george-lucas has never been able to be surprised by a-star-wars-film before and george-lucas said george-lucas was looking forward to a-star-wars-film.
production began in april 2014; a-star-wars-film was released on december 18, 2015.
on november 20, 2012, the-hollywood-reporter reported that lawrence-kasdan and simon-kinberg would write and produce episodes-viii and ix, but were later confirmed to be writing standalone-films.
on march 12, 2015, lucasfilm announced that johnson would direct episode-viii with ram-bergman as producer.
in march 2015, oscar-isaac confirmed oscar-isaac would reprise oscar-isaac role as poe-dameron in episode-viii.
some-pre-production-filming took place in september 2015 on the-island of skellig-michael, ireland to take advantage of better-weather-conditions.
abrams revealed that the-film's-script was completed in a-november-2015-interview with wired.
kennedy announced at the-december-17-london-premiere of the-force awakens that most of the-force cast would return for episode viii.on january 20, 2016
, lucasfilm and disney announced that the-release of the-film would be delayed from may to december 2017.
three days later, the-release-date of december 15, 2017 was confirmed, as well as the-title
principal-photography began in february 2016; additional-filming took place in dubrovnik from march 9 to march 16, as well as in ireland in
may.-principal-photography wrapped in july 2016.
carrie-fisher died on december 27, 2016, but had completed filming carrie-fisher role as leia.
in february 2016, disney-ceo-bob-iger confirmed that pre-production of episode-ix had begun.
in april 2017, kathleen-kennedy stated that fisher would not be in episode-ix, but it was later announced that fisher would in fact appear using unreleased-footage from the force awakens.
in september 2017, lucasfilm announced that trevorrow had stepped down as director, and a week later, lucasfilm was announced that j.-j.-abrams would return to direct episode-ix.
j.-j.-abrams co-wrote the-script with chris-terrio, in addition to producing the-film through bad-robot-productions with kathleen-kennedy and michelle-rejwan.
disney had originally scheduled the-film's-release for december 2019, in keeping with the-previous-two-sequel-trilogy-films, but then moved the-film up to may 24, a time of the-year more common to the-first-six-star-wars-episodes.
on january 10, 2018, disney was reported that john-williams will return to compose and conduct the-music for episode-ix.
on july 6, 2018, it was reported that keri-russell was in early-talks for a-role in episode-ix.
on july 9, the-hollywood-reporter reported that billy-dee-williams was confirmed to reprise the-role of lando-calrissian.
on july 27, the-official-casting-announcement was made, including the-return of daisy-ridley, adam-driver, john-boyega, oscar-isaac, lupita-nyong'o, domhnall-gleeson, kelly-marie-tran, joonas-suotamo, billie-lourd, mark-hamill, and anthony-daniels, with naomi-ackie and richard-e.-grant joining the-cast.
principal-photography began on august 1, 2018 and wrapped on february 15, 2019.
the-rise of skywalker-skywalker was released in the-united-states on december 20, 2019.
abrams compared the-fractured-mask to kintsugi, a-japanese-ceramic-art of repairing broken-pottery which accentuates the-breakage.
fan-criticism has surrounded aspects of the force awakens being too similar to previous-films in the-franchise, and the-last-jedi for subverting conventions of the-franchise without a-compelling-reason.
the-idea of luke-skywalker living on an-island following luke-skywalker failure to stop the-murder of luke-skywalker jedi students and then training an-apprentice who would help luke-skywalker overcome luke-skywalker self-doubt was first pitched by george-lucas in 2013 during creative-meetings between luke-skywalker and lucasfilm as part of story-discussions for episode vii
similarly, abrams hinted that emperor-palpatine being rey's-grandfather was an-early-idea palpatine being rey's-grandfather and lawrence-kasdan had while working on the force awakens, although daisy-ridley later claimed that ideas for rey's-lineage changed throughout filming of the-rise of skywalker.
george-lucas agreed with critics who considered the-force awakens too derivative of the-trilogy.
in an-interview with charlie-rose, lucas likened lucas decision to sell lucasfilm to disney to a-divorce, and outlined the-creative-differences between lucas and the-producers of the force awakens.
lucas described the-previous-six-star-wars-films as lucas "children" and defended lucas vision for the-previous-six-star-wars-films, while criticizing the force awakens for having a-"retro-feel", saying: "i worked very hard to make the-previous-six-star-wars-films completely different, with different-planets, with different-spaceships ... to make it new."
lucas also likened disney to "white-slavers", which drew some-criticism.
lucas subsequently apologized for this-remark.
in 2016, the-disney-produced-star-wars-anthology-film-rogue-one was released, and the-disney-produced-star-wars-anthology-film-rogue-one was reported that lucas liked the-disney-produced-star-wars-anthology-film-rogue-one more than the force awakens.
in 2017, lucas described the-sequel the-last-jedi as "beautifully made".
in a-2019-memoir, disney-president-bob-iger wrote that lucas felt "betrayed" after learning that abrams were not using iger-ideas for the-sequel-trilogy.
in 2016, responding to complaints that the force awakens was too derivative of previous-films, abrams said, "what was important for abrams was introducing brand-new-characters using relationships that were embracing the-history that we know to tell a-story that is new – to go backwards to go forwards".
abrams apologized for how abrams handled chewbacca and leia's-meeting after han-solo's-death, noting that han-solo's-best-friend and widow ignore each other, with leia instead hugging rey (whom leia is meeting for the-first-time).
abrams intended for bb-8 to help rey search for luke, which johnson changed to r2-d2 (due to being luke's droid, as well as bb-8 belonging to poe and not knowing luke).
additionally, abrams ending featured rey finding luke lifting rocks with the-force, which was changed due to johnson's-plot of luke having disconnected abrams from the-force.
he also stated that he considered including lando in the-film, possibly giving he the-role of new-character-dj, but didn't because it would had meant lando in the-film betraying the-characters without redemption.
in 2019, abrams said that abrams liked snoke's-death in the-sequel.
abrams also said that the-boldness of the-last-jedi inspired abrams to be more original on the-rise of skywalker and that the-last-jedi plot did not derail abrams plans for the-film, adding that in response to criticisms of the-force-awakens, johnson advised abrams "not to just do something that you've seen before."
abrams also affirmed abrams dedication not to retroactively release alternate-versions of the-films, saying, "i feel like [when] you're done with a-thing, ... that's what it is."
has dark-brown-fur and wears an-orange-hood, but wears a-green-hood in season two.
(voiced by taborah-johnson then sue-murphy) – has dark-grey-fur and wears a-yellow-hat with a-pink-feather in a-yellow-hat in season one; in season two dark-grey-fur is light brown and cream, and her is heather with a-greenish-blue-feather.
production ==
season 1 (1985) ===
season 2 (1986) ==
this season introduced a-new-theme-song, "friends together, friends forever", written and performed by patrick-gleeson.
on april 2, 2021, the-entire-series was released on disney+.during the-making of the-star-wars-prequel trilogy, the-entire-series producer, rick-mccallum, oversaw two direct-to-video compilation films, each compiled from four-episodes of the-entire-series.
the-character for oni, 鬼-(pinyin:-guǐ; jyutping: gwai2) in chinese also means a-dead-or-ancestral-spirit, and not-necessarily-an-evil-specter.
there is also a-well-known-game in japan called oni-gokko (鬼ごっこ), which is the same as the-game of tag that children in the-western-world-play.
masters of spinjitzu, oni appear as a-primordial-force of destruction, and are the-main-villains of the-show's-tenth-season, march of oni.
the-consolidation of the-new-republic is depicted in the-mandalorian as the-consolidation of the-new-republic sought to wipe out remnants of the-imperial-forces, and was eventually destroyed by the-first-order, under supreme-leader-snoke's-direction, in star-wars: the-force awakens.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977), as the-basis of counting standard-years.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977) when the-first-"galactic-constitution" was signed on coruscant, after hyperdrive connected many-worlds in the-core and enabled the-establishment of an-interstellar-central-government.
as depicted in the-star-wars: episode-iii – revenge of the-sith-novelization and deleted-scenes from the-film itself, a-bloc of senators began to emerge, even before the-clone-wars end, who opposed palpatine's-authoritarian-rule and resented palpatine-treatment of the-jedi and other-opponents.
a-reorganization of senatorial-representation occurs 1,000 years prior to star-wars during the-ruusan-reformation.
compared the-hypothesised-colonisation of the-core-worlds by coruscanti-humans to the-state of the-space-colonisation by humans from the-earth, which had taken its-first-step with nasa's-apollo-program of 1961–1972, just before george-lucas invented star-wars.
humans from the-earth, which had taken its-first-step with nasa's-apollo-program of 1961–1972, just before george-lucas invented star-wars argued that george-lucas offered a-solution to the-fermi-paradox: indeed, most of the star-wars galaxy was conquered/colonised and submitted to the-central-government of the-republic rather quickly by the-expansionist-humans from the-core-worlds soon after humans from the-earth, which had taken its-first-step with nasa's-apollo-program of 1961–1972, just before george-lucas invented star-wars acquired the-necessary-rocket-technology for interstellar-travel, but there are still large-unchartered-unknown-regions which are simply too far from the-fashionable-core-worlds to have been fully explored (as exploration of the-unknown-regions is lethally dangerous), let alone colonised.
the-mandalorian (2019–present)
the-film was announced after the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm in october 2012.
the-film is the-first-star-wars-film to not extensively involve franchise-creator-george-lucas, who only served as a-creative-consultant in the-early-stages of production.
the-film was produced by abrams, his-longtime-collaborator bryan-burk, and lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy.
abrams and lawrence-kasdan, co-writer of the-original-trilogy-films
filming began in april 2014 in abu-dhabi and iceland, with principal-photography also taking place in ireland and at pinewood-studios in england, and wrapped in november.
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles on december 14, 2015, and was released in the-united-states on december 18.
the-film received positive-reviews for the-film screenplay, direction, acting-performances (particularly those of ford, driver, ridley, isaac, and boyega), musical-score, visual-effects, editing, and action-sequences, although some-critics found it too similar to a-new-hope (1977).
the-film marked an-improvement in a-reception over the-previous-four-star-wars-films.
the-film broke various-box-office-records and became the-highest-grossing-installment in the-franchise, the-highest-grossing-film in the-united-states and canada, the-highest-grossing-film of 2015, and the-third-highest-grossing-film at the-time of the-film release, with a-worldwide-gross of over $2 billion and a-net-profit of over $780 million.
among films'-box-office adjusted for inflation, the-film is the-top-grossing-sequel of all-time in north-america.
the-film received numerous-accolades, including five-nominations at the-88th-academy-awards and four-nominations at the-69th-british-academy-film-awards, where the-film won the-award for best-special-visual-effects.
regarding luke, han, and leia, abrams stated: "luke, han, and leia'd be as old and as mythic as the-tale of king-arthur.
hamill was initially skeptical of luke only appearing at the-end of the-film and called his-limited-screentime "a great surprise".
abrams added that the-film's-ending was intended to be "this-great-long-drumroll up to seeing this-guy".
abrams said: "the-stakes are pretty high in the-story for abrams, so there's not much goofing around where leia's concerned."
a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper said that john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper learned john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper obtained the-part "over a-nice-breakfast in mayfair" during which abrams told john-boyega as finn: a-reformed-first-order-stormtrooper, "john, you're the-new-star of star-wars."
abrams said kanata has "lived over a thousand years.
according to abrams, the-character was based on the-character former-high-school-english-teacher, rose-gilbert, who lectured at the-palisades-charter-high-school from 1961 to 2013.
abrams said the-team "really wanted the-story to feel authentic, despite being a-wild-fantasy.
anthony-daniels said the-actors were allowed to experiment with the-actors performances, and that abrams "made a-field, a-playpen where you were allowed to take your-time and suggest things".
peter-mayhew as chewbacca's-double-joonas-suotamo portrays the-character in several-action-scenes, and ian-whyte performed stunts, as the-71-year-old-mayhew suffered from knee-problems.
production == ===
in october 2012, star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold star-wars-creator-george-lucas production company lucasfilm to the-walt-disney-company.
speaking alongside lucasfilm's-new-president, kathleen-kennedy, lucas said: "i always said i wasn't going to do any more
as creative-consultant on the-film, lucas attended early-story-meetings and advised on the-details of the-star-wars-universe.
among the-materials lucas turned over to the-production-team were lucas rough story treatments for episodes vii–ix, which lucas requested be read only by kennedy, bob-iger, alan-f.-horn, and kevin-a.-mayer.
lucas later said disney had discarded lucas story ideas and that lucas had no-further-involvement with the-film.
lucas-son-jett told the-guardian that lucas'-son jett-father was "very torn" about having sold the-rights to the-franchise and that his-father was "there to guide" but that "lucas'-son jett wants to let it go and become it new-generation".
bloodline).several-directors were considered, including david-fincher, brad-bird, jon-favreau, and guillermo-del-toro; after a-suggestion by steven-spielberg to kennedy, j.-j.-abrams was named director in january 2013, with lawrence-kasdan and simon-kinberg as project-consultants.
the-production announced arndt's-exit from the-project on october 24, 2013, and kasdan and abrams took over script-duties.
abrams expressed relief that the-release-date was announced for december 2015 instead of a-previously-discussed-summer-release.
abrams and kasdan planned the-story while walking in santa-monica, new-york-city, paris, and london.
abrams said the-key to the-film was [returned] to the-roots of the-first-star-wars-films and be based more on emotion than explanation.
in january 2014, abrams confirmed that the-script was complete.
in april 2014, lucasfilm clarified that episodes vii–ix would not feature storylines from the-star-wars expanded universe, though other-elements could be included, as with the-tv-series star-wars-rebels.
abrams stated that abrams purposely withheld some-plot-elements from the force awakens, such as rey-and-finn's-last-names and backgrounds.
kennedy admitted that "we haven't mapped out every-single-detail [of the-sequel-trilogy] yet", but said that abrams was collaborating with the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson, and that the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson would work with the-rise of skywalker's-then-director-colin-trevorrow to ensure a-smooth-transition and that "everybody's got a-say in how we move forward with this".
daisy-ridley later recounted that abrams had written drafts for episodes 8 and 9.a fictional-language was developed for use in the-film by youtube-star-sara-forsberg, who created the-viral-video-series "what languages sound like to foreigners"; forsberg developed the-language by studying various-languages, such as hindi and gujarati.
in november 2015, lucas recorded an-hour-long-interview with cbs-news-reporter-charlie-rose in which he said disney had not been "keen" to involve he and conceded: "if i get in there, i'm just going to cause trouble because they're not going to do what i want they to do, and i don't have the-control to do that any more, and all it would do is just muck everything up.
in early-december 2015, kathleen-kennedy told the-hollywood-reporter that lucas had seen the-movie and "liked it".
in the-same-month, at the-kennedy-center-honors, lucas stated, "i think the-fans are going to love it
abrams felt that, as the first in a-new-trilogy, the-film "needed to take a-couple of steps backwards into very-familiar-terrain" and use plot-elements from previous-star-wars-films.
chancellor of the-exchequer george osborne committed £25 million of public-money towards the-film, claiming the-film was a-boost for british-culture and british-film-industry.
beginning in september 2013, production-spaces at the-bad-robot-facility were converted for shooting of the force awakens for the-benefit of shooting a-minor-portion of the-film in the-united-states.
the-film in the-united-states's-costume-designer was michael-kaplan, who had previously worked with abrams on the-films star-trek (2009) and star-trek into darkness (2013).
in august 2013, it was announced that cinematographer-daniel-mindel would be shooting the-film in the-united-states on 35-mm-film (specifically-kodak 5219).
in october 2013, other-crew-members were confirmed, including sound-designer-ben-burtt, director of photography-mindel, production-designers rick-carter and darren-gilford, costume-designer-michael-kaplan, special-effects-supervisor-chris-corbould, re-recording-mixer-gary-rydstrom, supervising-sound-editor-matthew-wood, visual-effects-supervisors-roger-guyett, and executive-producer-jason-mcgatlin.
open-auditions were held in the-united-kingdom and the-united-states in november 2013 for the-roles of rachel and thomas.
casting began in earnest in january 2014, because of changes to the-script by kasdan and abrams.
screen-tests with actors continued until at-least-three-weeks before the-official-announcement in april 2014, with final-casting-decisions made only a few weeks earlier.
though lucas intimated that previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill would return for the-new-film as early as march 2013, previous-cast-members-carrie-fisher, harrison-ford, and mark-hamill casting was not confirmed until over a year later.
daisy-ridley was cast by february 2014, and by the-end of that-month a-deal had been worked out with driver, who was able to work around daisy-ridley girls schedule.
talks with andy-serkis and oscar-isaac began by march and continued into april.
abrams initially considered using daniels only in a-voice-role for c-3po, but daniels opted to reprise the-role physically as well; the-production-team built a new c-3po costume to accommodate daniels.
in may, abrams announced a-donation-contest for unicef from the-star-wars set in abu-dhabi; the-winner was allowed to visit the-set, meet members of the-cast and appear in the-film.
in february 2014, abrams said filming would begin in may and last about three months.
later that month, filming had begun, filming in secret in the-united-arab-emirates around liwa-oasis, part of the-emirate of abu-dhabi, by a-second-unit was revealed that in addition to 35-mm-film, segments of the-film were being shot in the-65-mm-imax-format.
in july, bad-robot reported via twitter that in july would be at least partially shot on imax-cameras.
abrams and the-cast-members went to abu-dhabi in early-may, where large-sets were built on location—including a-shuttle-like-spacecraft, a-large-tower, and a-big-market—and where explosives were used to create a-"blast-crater".
production moved to pinewood-studios in june.
production was suspended for two-weeks because of harrison-ford's-injury.
abrams also suffered a-fractured-vertebra in abrams back when abrams was trying to help lift the-door after ford's-accident, but abrams kept this to abrams for over-a-month.
in february 2016, this was reported that the-health-and-safety-executive brought four-criminal-charges against disney-subsidiary foodles-production-(uk), ltd. for alleged-health-and-safety-breaches relating to ford's-accident.
foodles-production-(uk)-ltd was subsequently fined $1.95 million in october 2016 for two-health-and-safety-breaches, after admitting the-counts at an-earlier-hearing.
in july 2014, filming took place over three-days at skellig-michael, an-island off the-coast of county-kerry,-ireland, with a-cast including mark-hamill and daisy-ridley.
takodana were shot in july in the-lake-district in the-northwest of england.
production was halted for two-weeks in early-august 2014
so abrams could rework shooting in ford's-absence and resumed with a-fully-healed-ford in mid-august.
principal-photography ended on november 3, 2014.
rian-johnson, director of the-last-jedi, reiterated that abrams would use little-cgi and more-practical,-traditional-special-effects, saying: "i think people are coming back around to [practical-effects].
in february 2014, industrial-light & magic (ilm) announced plans to open a-facility in london, citing disney's-star-wars-films as a-catalyst for the-expansion.
abrams supervised post-production and editing of the-film at bad-robot-productions'-headquarters in santa-monica.
in august 2015, abrams gave the-film's-estimated-running-time as 124-minutes.
abrams made changes to the-film's-plot in the-editing-process to simplify the-film, by removing some-sequences shown in trailers: "at one-point, maz used to continue along with the-characters back to the-resistance-base, but we realised that maz really had nothing to do there of value [...]
"on november 6, 2014, the-film's-title was announced as star-wars: the-force awakens.
in december 2015, pablo-hidalgo, the-creative-executive at the-lucasfilm-story-group which handles all-the-canonical-continuity for the-star-wars-universe, revealed that the-working-title for the-film was shadow of the-empire "for the-longest-time".
in july 2013, john-williams was confirmed to return to compose the-sequel-trilogy, beginning with the force awakens.
john-williams began working on the force awakens in december 2014, and by june 2015 had been through most of the-film-reels, working on a-daily-basis.
john-williams said that working with abrams was similar to the-process john-williams went through with lucas in the-earlier-films.
the-90-piece-orchestra recorded 175-minutes of music; however, abrams reedited the-film, which discarded, modified, or rerecorded the-score's-part for nearly-an-hour.
gustavo-dudamel conducted the-opening-and-end-title-music for the-film at williams'-behest.
recording of the-score was completed on november 14, 2015.
the-film at williams'-behest's-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 18, 2015.
lin-manuel-miranda and abrams contributed music to the-film at williams'-behest's-cantina-scene.
abrams met miranda at a-performance of abrams broadway musical hamilton, where miranda jokingly offered to compose cantina-music, should it be needed.
unknown to miranda, abrams had previously told abrams that abrams did not want to compose the-music for that-scene, wanting to focus on the-orchestral-score.
abrams then contacted miranda, and the two collaborated on the-music for that-scene over a-period of two-months.
on november 28, 2014, lucasfilm released an-88-second-teaser-trailer.
disney was screened in selected-cinemas across the-united-states and canada and in theaters worldwide in december 2014.
on december 11, 2014, abrams and kennedy released a-series of eight-mock-topps-trading-cards revealing the-names of several-characters.
on april 16, 2015, a-second-teaser-trailer, this one lasting two-minutes, was shown at the-opening-panel at the-star-wars-celebration in anaheim, california.
at the-2015-san-diego-comic-con-international, in addition to a-panel with many of the-actors, a behind-the-scenes look at the-film demonstrated the-film's use of practical-sets and effects.
the-film was positively received, with nigel-m.-smith of the-guardian writing: "
smith compared the-marketing-strategy for the-film to that of a-previous-abrams-film, super 8, saying "the-promos [...] are notable for what they tease, not what they give away. "
in october 2015, lucasfilm unveiled the-theatrical-release-poster and a-third-trailer.
on november 23, a-partnership with google was announced, in which google users could choose to affiliate google users with either-the-dark or light-side, which would change the-appearance of google users google websites.
on december 17, 2015, select-theaters across the-united-states and canada aired a-star-wars-marathon, airing the-six-previous-star-wars-episode-films in 2d, followed by the force awakens in 3d.
alan-dean-foster wrote a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18.
in an-effort to avoid revealing plot-details before the-film's-release, the-print-release of a-novelization of the-force-awakens which was released in e-book-form on december 18 was delayed until january 2016.
marvel-comics published a-six-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-force awakens between june and november 2016.disney-consumer-products and lucasfilm announced that september 4, 2015 would be deemed "force friday" and would be the-official-launch of all-the-merchandise for the-force awakens.
disney-and-maker-studios hosted an-18-hour-live-streaming-presentation on youtube, showcasing multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015.
among multiple-merchandise-products beginning on september 3, 2015 were a-remote-controlled-bb-8 developed by sphero.
sphero had participated in a-disney-run-startup-accelerator in july 2014, where sphero were invited into a-private-meeting with disney-ceo-bob-iger, in which sphero were shown on-set-photos and imagery of bb-8 before sphero public unveiling.
eventually, the-film got a-full-lego-video-game-adaptation, titled lego-star-wars:
the force awakens premiered in los-angeles at the-tcl-chinese-theatre, el-capitan-theatre, and dolby-theatre on december 14, 2015.
the-film was released in 12-countries, including european-nations (such as italy and france), the-philippines, and thailand on december 16; 32-countries including the-united-kingdom, mexico, and additional-european,-asian,-african,-south-american,-and-oceania-countries on december 17; and in the-united-states and canada, japan, spain, and venezuela on december 18, in 3d and imax 3d.
it was released in india on december 25 and in china on january 9
, 2016.in the-united-states and canada, it had the-widest-release of december across 4,134-theaters, of which 3,300 were 3d-locations, a-record-392-imax-screens (13 of which were 70mm), 451-premium-large-format-screens, 146-d-box-locations, as well as releasing in the-dolby-vision-format (high-dynamic-range, rec.
on december 18, 2015, 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began playing on every-imax-screen in the-united-states and canada for four-straight-weeks up to january 14, 2016.
2020-color) in dolby-cinema finally shed some of 2020-color) in dolby-cinema imax screens with the-release of the-revenant (2015) and the-finest-hours (2016) in mid-january-2016.advance-ticket-sales for 2020-color) in dolby-cinema began on october 19, 2015, and were in strong-demand, resulting in online-movie-ticket-sites crashing.
in the-united-states, the-film pre-sold a-record-breaking-$6.5-million-worth of imax-ticket-sales on a-single-day.
this-number was raised to $100 million including $50–60 million in advance-ticket-sales by december 14.
we have people buying star-wars [the-force awakens] into 2016.
similarly, the-film broke pre-sales-records in the-uk, canada, and germany.
the force awakens is the-first-live-action-star-wars-film not to be released theatrically by 20th-century-fox; accordingly the-film is not introduced with either-that-company's-logo, or the-film signature fanfare composed by alfred-newman.
instead, the-film is the first in the-series to be distributed by walt-disney-studios-motion-pictures, and the-film is presented with only-lucasfilm's-production-logo shown silently before the-main-titles.
disney-chairman-bob-iger explained that the-decision not to place disney-branding on the-film was "for the-fans".
anywhere on april 1, 2016, with a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5.
a-blu-ray-and-dvd-release on april 5 contains additional-footage, with eight-bonus-features.
a-blu-ray-3d-"collector's-edition" of the-film was released on november 15, including all-the-features of the-original-home-releases, as well as several-new-bonus-features, including new-deleted-scenes and audio-commentary by director-j.-j.-abrams.
the-4k-version of the-film was later re-released in "the-skywalker-saga" 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
the force awakens grossed $936.7 million in the-united-states and canada, and $1.132 billion in other-countries for a-worldwide-total of $2.068 billion.
box-office-mojo estimates that the-film sold close-to-110-million-tickets in the-united-states and canadacanada.
the force awakens earned 8.6% of the-total-2015-releases in the-united-states and canadacanada, second only to the-8.8% of the-box-office earned by titanic in 1997.
total-costs, after accounting for profit-participations, production and distribution of home-videos, as well as other-ancillary-mediums, is expected to run $423 million.
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence predicted the-force-awakens would earn up to $540 million worldwide for the-force
reports in april 2015 from the-hollywood-reporter and amboee-brand-intelligence believed that the-force-awakens would have the-widest-release ever, across 4,500-theaters in the-united-states and canada.
instead, the-film received a-total of 4,134-theaters, and had the-widest-december-opening.
box-office-analyst-phil-contrino likened the-film to avatar (2009), which opened to $77 million in the-united-states and canada and went on to earn $2.8 billion worldwide, saying the-force-awakens would earn $1 billion "without blinking" and could gross $2 billion.
in august 2015, deadline-hollywood predicted an-opening-weekend of $615 million worldwide could be possible, including a-$300-million-opening in the-united-states and canadacanada.
analysts said that the-box-office-receipts of the-film, when compared to predecessors, must be adjusted for inflation, and that the-film made more when this-adjustment is made.
box-office-analyst-paul-dergarabedian said that while avatar and the force awakens were both released on the-same-date of december 18, higher-ticket-prices in 2015 and imax-screenings could push star-wars "into the box office stratosphere".
by january 13, analysts concluded that it was unlikely that the force awakens would surpass avatar's-global-gross.
while the force awakens was very successful in the-united-states and canada, the-same-success was not witnessed in many-overseas-individual-markets such as germany, india, latin-america, and parts of asia.
one cited reason for this is that overseas-audiences do not have the-same-nostalgia or affinity for the-film as those in the-u.s.
canada, the-force-awakens was released on december 18, 2015.
on the-film opening day, the-film grossed $119.1 million, marking the-biggest-single--and-opening-day-record and the-first-time a-film has earned more than $100 million in a-single-day.
without thursday-night-grosses, the-film earned the second-largest opening-day gross and a-record of $247.9 million for the-film opening weekend.
revenues in the-film's-second-weekend decreased by only-39.8% in the-united-states and canada, earning $149.2 million, to remain in first-place at the-box-office and recording the-biggest-second-weekend of all-time.
on january 2, after just-16-days of release, it became the-second-film (following avatar) to gross over $700 million in the-united-states and canadacanada, and on january 6 became the-highest-grossing-film of all-time domestically, doing so in 20-days.
on january 9, it became the-first-film in cinematic-history to cross $800 million domestically unadjusted for inflation.
on february 5, the force awakens became the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada.
the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fell outside of the top ten for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada
eleventh-weekend during the-weekend-february-26–28, 2016, and did not achieve $1 million in ticket-sales for the-first-time in the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada fourteenth weekend.
internationally, the-first-film to earn over $900 million, unadjusted for inflation, in the-united-states and canada was released in over-30,000-screens.
it opened on december 16, 2015, in 12-international-markets and earned $14.1 million on it opening day, debuting at first-place in all of them.
it expanded in an-additional-42-countries on december 17, generating $58.6 million for a-two-day-international-total of $72.7 million, reaching first-place in all-44-markets.
as of february 21, the-largest-markets outside of the-united-states and canada are the-united-kingdom ($180.7 million), china ($124.5 million), germany ($109.7 million), japan ($92.6 million), and france ($88.2 million).
on january 17, 2016, it passed the-$1-billion-mark overseas becoming the-first-film of disney, the-third-film of 2015 and the-fifth-film overall to achieve this-feat.
robbie-collin of the-daily-telegraph said the-force awakens "sets out to shake star-wars from the-force
variety's-justin-chang wrote that the-film has "sufficient-style, momentum, love, and care to prove irresistible to any who have ever considered themselves fans".
ann-hornaday, writing for the-washington-post, thought the-film had "enough-novelty to create yet-another-cohort of die-hard-fans", and the-film struck "all the right chords, emotional, and narrative, to feel both familiar and exhilaratingly new."
the-charlotte-observer's-lawrence-toppman said abrams had "pulled off a-delicate-balancing-act, paying clever-homage to the-past."
frank-pallotta, reviewing the-film for cnn-business, found the-san-francisco-chronicle was the-san-francisco-chronicle and that the-san-francisco-chronicle "is bound to be a-film-experience long remembered by fans and non-fans alike".
tom-long of the-detroit-news wrote that though some may find the-film too similar to the-original-star-wars, it leaves "the-ungainly-and-unneeded-clumsiness of the-subsequent-prequels far behind", with "the-energy, humor, and simplicity of direction [has] been recaptured".
stephanie-zacharek of time wrote that abrams had delivered "everything we expect, as opposed to those-nebulous-wonders we didn't know we wanted".
reviewing for forbes, scott-mendelson cited the-original-film's-"top-tier-production-values and a-strong-sense of scale and scope", but felt it was so much "an-exercise in fan-service [that] it is only due to the-charisma and talent of our-newbies and abrams undeniable-skill as a-visual-storyteller that the-mad-libs-narrative doesn't outright destroy the-picture".
rogerebert.com's-gerardo-valero went as far as to accuse the-film of plagiarizing a-new-hope and resorting to nostalgia.
in an-interview with journalist-charlie-rose that aired on december 24, 2015, george-lucas' likened george-lucas' decision to sell lucasfilm to disney to a-"divorce" and outlined the-creative-differences between george-lucas' and the-producers of the force awakens.
in a-2019-memoir, disney-chairman-bob-iger said that george-lucas "couldn't even hide george-lucas disappointment" towards j.-j.-abrams'-interpretation.
according to disney-chairman-bob-iger, george-lucas said, "there's nothing new" after seeing the-film, and that "there weren't enough-visual-or-technical-leaps forward".
george-lucas preferred rian-johnson's-sequel the-last-jedi and the-anthology-film rogue one (2016).
the-film received seven-visual-effects-society-awards-nominations, winning four, including outstanding-visual-effects in an-effects-driven-feature-motion-picture.
the-film received the-most-nominations at the-21st-empire-awards, including best-film, best sci-fi/fantasy film, best-director for j.-j.-abrams, best-male-newcomer for john-boyega, and best-female-newcomer for daisy-ridley.
rian-johnson confirmed in august 2014 that rian-johnson would write and direct the-last-jedi, which was released on december 15, 2017.
the-rise of skywalker was released on december 20, 2019.
j.-j.-abrams directed the-film and co-wrote the-film with chris-terrio.
the-character first featured in the-force awakens media and merchandising, and returned in the-film's-sequels, the-last-jedi (2017) and the-rise of skywalker (2019).
gleeson's-performance has received generally-positive-reception from critics and fans, while the-reaction to the-character and gleeson shifting roles throughout the-trilogy has been more mixed.
a-scene deleted from the-film featured hux and pryde in the-opening-action-sequence with kylo-ren.
his-appears, in person, in the-eleventh-episode "station to station" of the-second-season and in hologram in the-finale of season two, "the escape", along with kylo-ren.
rise of the-resistance with gleeson reprising the-role in each.
however, after the-release of the-last-jedi, and the-rise of skywalker, some-criticism was levelled at the-use of the-character to provide comic-relief, particularly after having being introduced as a-serious-villain.
unlike most-lego-video-games in which players had to advance through the-story in a-linear-order, players can choose to start the-game from any of the-nine-skywalker-saga-episodes and complete-players in any-order players wish.
the-game features 300-playable-characters.
in the-meantime, tt-games worked on other-aspects of the-game until lucasfilm shared more-details.
the-game is developed in traveller's-tales'-new-engine, ntt (pronounced-entity).
the-skywalker-saga will use original voice acting, with the-first-actor of the-game being billy-dee-williams voicing lando-calrissian.
the following day at the-2020-gamescom-opening-night-live, the-lego-website was announced that the-game would release in q1/q2 2021 under the-description of "spring 2021" with additional-versions on the-playstation-5-and-xbox-series-x/s.
on 2-april 2021, it was announced that the-game had been delayed, with no-further-release-window specified.
the-game will be available in a-standard-edition and a-deluxe-edition.
sound-editor-matthew-wood submitted a-voice-audition for the-character as alan-smithee.
lucas liked a-voice-audition for the-character as alan-smithee the most, and since lucas had bronchitis at the-time, lucas instructed sound-editor-matthew-wood to give the-character as alan-smithee an-asthmatic-cough.
this was intended to emphasize the-character as alan-smithee's-organic-nature as well as the-flaws of having cyborg-prosthetics.
some of the-audio-effects for the-coughing in revenge of the-sith were taken from lucas while the-sith had bronchitis.
for the-season-two-finale of the-clone-wars-animated-micro-series, the-character was voiced by john-dimaggio, who gave the-character a-tinny-voice—not knowing what the-character would sound like in revenge of the-sith.
richard-mcgonagle voiced the-character for clone wars season three.
the-character was voiced by matthew-wood in the-feature-film revenge of the-sith, the-animated-series the-clone-wars, and most-video-game-appearances.
david-w.-collins voiced the-character (albeit uncredited) in star-wars-battlefront: renegade-squadron and battlefront: elite-squadron.
dimaggio was considered for the-role for grievous after dimaggio had previously voiced dimaggio in the-2003-clone-wars-animated-series, but was later dropped.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
grievous has been featured as a-playable-character in the-star-wars: battlefront-series, namely-star-wars: battlefront-ii (2005), star-wars-battlefront: elite-squadron (2009), and, most recently, star-wars battlefront-ii (2017).grievous has also appeared as a-playable-character in star-wars: the-clone-wars-–-lightsaber-duels (2008), angry birds star-wars ii (2014) as an-evil-pig, and the mobile games star-wars: galaxy of heroes (2015) and star-wars: force-arena (2017).
principal-photography began in january 2017 at pinewood-studios, under the-direction of phil-lord and christopher-miller.
solo released in the-united-states on may 25, 2018, and received generally-favorable-reviews from critics who praised the-film's-cast (particularly-ehrenreich and glover), visuals, musical-score, and action-sequences, while some criticized it storyline and screenplay.
harrison-ford, who portrayed the-character in previous-films, met with ehrenreich, giving the-han we meet in this-film is more of an-idealist some-insight and words of advice.
the-character of beckett was based on long-john-silver from treasure-island by robert-louis-stevenson.
billy-dee-williams, who portrayed the-character in previous-films, met with glover, giving the-character some-insight and words of advice.
when the-character dies in the-film the-character consciousness and data are uploaded to the-millennium-falcon which serves as a-retcon of the-previous-star-wars-films including the empire strikes back in which the-starship was described as having "the-most-peculiar-dialect".
joonas-suotamo reprises joonas-suotamo role from the force awakens and the-last-jedi, in the-former of which joonas-suotamo acted as a-body double for peter-mayhew, who portrayed the-character in previous-films.
bettany was cast in bettany place, with the-character being reworked from a-motion-capture-alien (described by michael-k.-williams as half-mountain-lion, half-human) to a-scarred-near-human-alien-lifeform.
ray-park reprises ray-park role as maul, with sam-witwer providing the-voice, reprising the-role from the-clone-wars-and-rebels-animated-tv-series.
production ==
in 2012, lucas began developing a-film about a-young-solo, and hired veteran-star-wars-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan to write the-screenplay.
after lucas sold lucas company to disney in 2012, veteran-star-wars-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan was hired to help finish the-script for star-wars:
in february 2013, disney-ceo-bob-iger confirmed the-development of two-star-wars-standalone-films, one written by lawrence-kasdan.
in may 2016, lawrence-kasdan stated that filming would start in january 2017.
in january 2016, a-list of actors was revealed for the-role of young-han-solo, including miles-teller, ansel-elgort, dave-franco, jack-reynor, scott-eastwood, logan-lerman, emory-cohen, and blake-jenner.
in march 2016, it was reported that alden-ehrenreich, reynor and taron-egerton were on a-shortlist for the-role.
in may 2016, alden-ehrenreich was reported to have been cast as the-young-han-solo, and was revealed in the-role at star-wars-celebration-europe-iii two months later.
miller called casting the-role at star wars celebration europe iii one of "the-hardest-casting-challenges of all-time", adding that they "saw over-3,000-people for the-part".
other-actors to audition for the-role included chandler-riggs, rami-malek, aaron-taylor-johnson, tom-felton, nick-robinson, colton-haynes, joshua-sasse and ed-westwick.
shameik-moore also auditioned for the-role of a-young-lando-calrissian.
in early-january 2017, woody-harrelson was revealed to be in negotiations to portray han-solo's-mentor, and was confirmed to be appearing in the-film shortly after.
a-subsequent-interview with harrelson bolstered speculation that harrelson may be specifically playing legends-character-garris-shrike, but harrelson revealed the-character's-name as beckett in march 2017.
in february 2017, phoebe-waller-bridge joined the-cast in an-undisclosed-role, said to be "a-cgi-driven-performance" similar to alan-tudyk in rogue one as the-droid k-2so.
waller-bridge and thandie-newton were confirmed as part of the-cast by the-end of february, alongside the-announcement that joonas-suotamo would appear as chewbacca, reprising the-role from the force awakens and the-last-jedi, where he shared waller-bridge and newton with original chewbacca actor peter mayhew.
michael-k.-williams entered talks to join the-film in early-march 2017, and was confirmed shortly after, portraying a-half-human,-half-animal-creature.
warwick-davis was confirmed as part of the-cast by the-end of july 2017.peter
serafinowicz was set to reprise serafinowicz voice role as maul and had recorded dialogue during production at pinewood-studios.
filming began on january 30, 2017, at pinewood-studios, under the-working-title star-wars: red cup.
by february 10, the-film had spent $54.5 million on production.
lucasfilm announced that principal-photography started on february 20, 2017.
it was reported that ron-howard, who had previously collaborated with lucas as an-actor in american-graffiti (1973) and the-director of willow (1988), was a-frontrunner to step in as director.
actor-michael-k.-williams stated the-reshoots for actor-michael-k.-williams character were "to match the-new-direction which the-producers wanted ron to carry the-film in", and that actor-michael-k.-williams would not have been available again until november 2017; the-production did not want to wait for actor-michael-k.-williams availability to make a-release in may 2018.
bettany, who previously worked with howard on a-beautiful-mind, had heard of the-director's-involvement with the-film and texted actor-michael-k.-williams to inquire into joining the-film.
on october 17, 2017, howard announced that principal-photography had been completed, and revealed the-title of the-film.
in march 2018, after the-film was reported howard had reshot around-70% of the-film, it was announced that lord and miller would not challenge for director-credit and instead agreed to executive-producer-credits.
post-production wrapped on april 22, 2018.
he would utilize miniature-models and built a-3d-model of the-mountain in the-film and blew a-3d-model of the-mountain in the-film up with a-variety of firecrackers within a-large-fish-tank built at pinewood.
the-slow-mo-guys, specifically-a-video of the-creators gavin-free and daniel-gruchy conducting an-experiment that saw them blowing up firecrackers in a-fish-tank to capture the-explosion in slow-motion.60-versions of the-design of the-millennium-falcon were created before the-final-version seen in the-film was settled on.
in july 2017, john-powell was announced as the-main-composer of the-score.
in december 2017, powell wrote two-musical-pieces and combined two-musical-pieces to create han's-theme.
in december 2020, mondo-death-waltz released the-soundtrack on 180g-vinyl and limited-"hyperspace"-vinyl.
the-soundtrack has since been lauded as one of mondo's-best-releases and praised the-designs in september 2020, powell announced on social-media that a-deluxe-edition of the-soundtrack album would be remixed and mastered by 5-cat-studios, featuring all-unedited-cues from the-score and additional-demos that williams had composed for the-soundtrack.
a-deluxe-edition of the-soundtrack-album was released by walt-disney-records on november 20, 2020, featuring an-additional-40-minutes of previously-unreleased-music.
a-"sneak-peek"-tv-spot was released during super-bowl-lii on february 4, 2018.
the-first-official-teaser-trailer was released on february 5, 2018.
graeme-mcmillan of the-hollywood-reporter also noted that several-plot-elements presented in the-first-official-teaser-trailer were reminiscent of the-han-solo-trilogy, a-series of novels published in 1997 and 1998.in early march 2018, french-artist-hachim-bahous asserted that disney had plagiarized a-series of album covers graeme-mcmillan of the-hollywood-reporter designed for sony-music's-label legacy-recordings in france with character-posters for the-film.
a-star-wars-story grossed $213.8 million in the-united-states and canada, and $179.4 million in other-territories, for a-total-worldwide-gross of $393.2 million.
with an-estimated-production-budget of $275 million, the-film needed to gross at least $500 million worldwide to break even.
a week after an-estimated-production-budget of $275 million, the-film needed to gross at least $500 million worldwide to break even-worldwide-debut of just $147.5 million, variety wrote that an-estimated-production-budget of $275 million, the-film needed to gross at least $500 million worldwide to break even would lose disney "tens-of-millions of dollars" off a-projected-final-total-gross of $400–450 million while the-hollywood-reporter estimated the-losses would range from $50 to $80 million.
in april 2019, hollywood-hollywood calculated an-estimated-production-budget of $275 million, the-film needed to gross at least $500 million worldwide to break even lost the-studio $76.9 million, when factoring together all-expenses and revenues.
initial-projections three weeks before the-film-release had the-film grossing around $170 million over the-film four-day-memorial-day-opening-weekend.
after the-film first-day of pre-sales, fandango announced the-film was the-second-best-seller of advance-tickets in 2018, after avengers: infinity-war.
the-film opened in 4,381-theaters, the-ninth-highest-total ever, including 3,300-3d-locations and 400-imax-screens.
worldwide the-film was expected to make $285–340 million in opening-weekend, including $150–170 million internationally.
the-film held a-better-than-expected-47% in
the-film second weekend, making $30.3 million from 54-countries and remaining
the-film in several, including australia, spain and the-united-kingdom.
michael-rechtshaffen of the-hollywood-reporter praised the-cast-and-production-values but felt the-film as a-whole felt too safe, writing, "while ehrenreich's-solo proves adept at maneuvering the-millennium-falcon out of some-tight-spots, the-picture itself follows a-safely-predictable-course.
critics noted the-film intentionally left room open for sequels.
in march 2020, jon-kasdan tweeted that jon-kasdan did not "think anyone's pursuing a-solo-sequel at the-moment ...
on may 25, 2020, fans again used the-hashtag #makesolo2happen to show fans-appreciation for the-film on the-film second anniversary.
#makesolo2happen went viral with fans arguing that the-film deserved more-praise and once-again-calls were made for a-continuation of the-story.
expanded-edition (isbn 978-0525619390) was published on september 4, 2018 by del-rey-books.
additionally, a-seven-issue-comic-book-adaptation of the-film was published by marvel-comics starting in october 2018, written by robbie-thompson and pencilled by will-sliney.
players take the-role of soldiers in either of two-opposing-armies in different-time-periods of the-star-wars-universe.
the-game received positive-reviews and sold well.
subsequently, ea-dice acquired a-license to develop a-new-game, titled star wars battlefront which was released on november 17, 2015.
a-sequel, star-wars-battlefront-ii, was released on november 17, 2017, and was developed by ea-dice, criterion-games, and motive-studios.
battlefront-ii (2017) is the first in the-series to accurately follow the-canon of the-films, while the-games developed by pandemic-studios were relegated to star-wars-legends-non-canonical-status, along with all of the-games in the-series released before november 2015.
battlefront was released on september 21, 2004, with a-mac-port by aspyr released in july 2005.
the-game is available on microsoft-windows, playstation 2, xbox, mac-os, and mobile-phones.
battlefront-ii is the-second-installment in the-battlefront-series, released in europe on october 31, 2005 – for the-playstation-2,-psp, xbox, and windows – and in north-america one day later.
the-game is now an-xbox-platinum-hits-game, a-sony-greatest-hits-game in north-america, and an-xbox-classics-and-playstation-platinum-game in europe.
many-maps from star-wars-battlefront make a-second-appearance, and the-game adds new-locales such as coruscant and utapau.
the-game also introduces "heroes" – playable-characters based on iconic-characters from the-star-wars-films who are much more powerful than regular-soldier (and were also present in the-original-battlefront, but only as npcs that spawned randomly on the-battlefield); the-hero-roster includes luke-skywalker, han-solo, leia-organa, chewbacca, obi-wan-kenobi, yoda, mace-windu, ki-adi-mundi and aayla-secura (as well as kit-fisto, available only on the-xbox-version of the-game via the-xbox-live-patch), whereas the-villain-roster includes darth-vader, darth-sidious, boba-fett, count-dooku, general-grievous, darth-maul, jango-fett, and anakin-skywalker (as well as asajj-ventress, also available only via the-xbox-live-patch).
on september 29, 2006, computer-and-video-games made an-unconfirmed-claim that free-radical-design was developing the-third-game in the-star-wars: battlefront-series, titled star-wars: battlefront-iii.
on october 2, activision-blizzard filed a-classification with the-australian-office of film-and-literature-classification listing star-wars: battlefront-iii for the-nintendo-ds with a-pg-rating (e10+ equivalent) for mild-animated-violence.
however, that same month, free-radical-design announced that free-radical-design lost the-rights to develop star-wars: battlefront-iii; the-game at that-point had been in development for two-years.
however, gamespot quoted an-unnamed-lucasarts-employee involved with the-project who said free-radical could not devote sufficient-resources to the-game and regularly missed deadlines.
in december 2008, star-wars-character renders bearing a-battlefront-iii-watermark surfaced from a-laid-off-free-radical-employee.
the following month, gameplay-footage was leaked from a november 2008 free-radical in-house showing of battlefront-iii-footage.
on april 1, 2012, a-user on the-game-journalist-website betagames discovered star-wars-models and textures buried in resident-evil:
also in april 2012, past to present revealed pre-alpha-footage of free-radical-design's-battlefront-iii.
on january 20, 2016, a-leaked-build of the-game surfaced on reddit.
a-leaked-build of the-game is currently playable using an-xbox-360-development-kits and modified xbox-360-consoles via a-program called "rgloader".
on january 28, 2010, kotaku reported that socom-developer-slant-six-games was working with lucasarts to develop an-online-only-battlefront-title due in 2011.
the-game was said to be released for the xbox 360 and playstation 3.
speaking to kotaku an-anonymous-insider noted that the-game was to be "step zero" towards a-third-battlefront-game.
when footage of the-game was leaked onto youtube-tech-site technobuffalo noted that the-gameplay very closely resembled that of the-call of duty-franchise.
in 2018, concept-art surfaced of a-canceled-battlefront-iv, rather than attempting to fit within the-previous-games-and-films'-continuity, concept-art showed the-game was meant to focus on an-alternate-reality where obi-wan-kenobi and luke-skywalker fell to the-dark-side, instead of anakin-skywalker.
==== is a-handheld-game released in north-america on october 9, 2007 and in europe three days later.
the-game was released only for the-playstation-portable.
however, the-character will be vulnerable due to the-lacking of certain-aspects that will be replaced by others.
for example, the-character may be fast but weak or have good-weapons but no-stamina and speed.
elite-squadron ==== was released on november 3, 2009 for the-playstation-portable and the-nintendo-ds.
it was released on april 2, 2009.
the-game features a-persistent-online-community, and has three-character-classes.
in april 2015, ea announced a-release-date of november 17, 2015 at star-wars-celebration.
the-game is a-reboot of the-series, focusing on capturing the-look of the-films.
free-downloadable-content (dlc) for the-game was released in december 2015, featuring the-planet of jakku with two-new-maps and a-new-multiplayer-game-mode.
the-game also features both-first-and-third-person-gameplay-perspectives, similar to the-game predecessors.
the-game features a-pseudo-campaign — a-cooperative-experience allowing the-player to experience gameplay with one-or-two-players and computer-controlled-allies and opponents.
outer-rim" is the-first-dlc-pack for the-game and was released on march 22, 2016.
the-second-expansion-pack is titled "bespin" and allows players to fight in the-setting of cloud-city, released in september 2016.
the-third-expansion-pack, titled "death star", was released in september 2016 as well and added the-long-awaited-death-star to the-game, along with new-heroes-chewbacca and bossk.
the-fourth-and-final-dlc-pack was released on december 6, 2016.
the-fourth-and-final-dlc-pack is based on characters and locations from the-film rogue-one, and includes jyn-erso and orson-krennic as new-playable-heroes, and a-new-game-mode set both above and on the-planet scarif.
blake-jorgensen of electronic-arts mentioned a-sequel in november 2016, and star-wars-battlefront-ii was announced in march 2017.
the-game was released on november 17, 2017.
a-celebration-edition was released in december 2019.
the-game was originally planned for release in fall 2020, coinciding with the-next-generation of video-game-consoles, but was canceled in late 2019.
on january 25, 2016, frontwire-studios began an-attempt to produce an-unofficial-battlefront-installment called galaxy in turmoil.
the-fan made game was in production using unreal-engine 4 and was based on the-canceled-star-wars: battlefront-iii by free-radical-design.
although early-versions of the-game contained assets from free-radical-design, assets soon became "place-holders" as the-full-game planned to be released using assets and music made from the-ground up.
on july 31, 2016, frontwire-studios announced the-cancellation of the-game was due to the-"possibility of galaxy in turmoil taking away attention from electronic-arts's-battlefront-franchise".
thrawn (also known simply as thrawn) is a-star-wars-novel by timothy-zahn, published on april 11, 2017 by del-rey-books.
thrawn (also known simply as thrawn) chronicles the-origins of grand admiral thrawn, a-popular-character originating from the-star-wars-legends-line of works, which were declared non-canon to the-franchise after disney redefined star-wars-continuity in april 2014.
the-novel was announced in july 2016 alongside news that the-character thrawn would be reintroduced into the-star-wars-franchise on the-3d-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars-rebels.
a-sequel, titled thrawn: alliances, was released in july 2018.
a-third-novel, thrawn: treason, was released in july 2019.
the-character of thrawn was originally introduced in zahn's-1991-novel-heir to the-empire, and became a fan favorite.
the-character of thrawn went on to appear in several-other-novels, short-stories, comics, and video-games.
following the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-fiction produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.in a-prerecorded-video, zahn announced at the london star-wars celebration in july 2016 that del rey.
in a-subsequent-interview with starwars.com, zahn noted that the-novel would cover several-years between thrawn's-"first-encounter" with the-empire and the-events of the-third-season of star-wars-rebels, an-animated-television-series in which the-character will appear prior to the-book's-release.
the-character said: it's very exciting [to write thrawn again].
a-writer never knows which-characters are going to click with the-readers, and it was highly gratifying to the-character that thrawn captured the-imaginations of so-many-people over the-past-quarter-century.
"a-full-synopsis of the-novel was released in january 2017, followed by an-excerpt in march 2017.
thrawn was published on april 11, 2017.
in july 2017, marvel-comics announced that a-comic-book-miniseries-adaptation of thrawn is scheduled for release in early 2018.
the-first-issue was released on february 14, 2018, with five more to follow on a-monthly-basis.
a-sequel to thrawn, titled thrawn: alliances, was announced during new-york-comic-con in october 2017.
the-novel was scheduled to be released on june 26, 2018, but was later delayed to july 24, 2018.
the-cover-artwork was revealed in november 2017, and an-excerpt was released on the-official-star-wars-website on march 23, 2018.
alliances was released by del-rey-books on july 24, 2018, and debuted at #1 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list.
in december 2018, it was announced that timothy-zahn would write and publish another-thrawn-sequel, titled thrawn: treason.
the-novel was released by del-rey-books on july 23, 2019, and debuted at #5 on the-new-york-times-best-seller-list.
after being delayed twice, the-first-novel was ultimately released on september 1, 2020.the-prequel follows thrawn's-original-rise through the-ranks of the-chiss-ascendancy and the-allies and enemies he collects along the-way.
in october 2020 a-sequel to chaos-rising was announced, titled greater good, which is set for a-may-4,-2021-release.
on april 1, 2020, the-final-novel in the-thrawn-ascendency-trilogy was announced, titled lesser evil, which is set for a-november-16,-2021-release.
the-mandalorian is an-american-space-western-television-series created by jon-favreau for the-streaming-service disney+.
star-wars-creator-george-lucas sold lucasfilm to disney in october 2012.
favreau signed on in march 2018, serving as writer and showrunner.
the-series'-title was announced in october 2018, with filming starting at manhattan-beach-studios in california.
the-mandalorian premiered with the-launch of disney+
on november 12, 2019.
a-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020, and a-third-season is in pre-production.
beginning five years after the-events of return of the-jedi (1983) and the-fall of the-galactic-empire, the-mandalorian follows din-djarin, a-lone-mandalorian-bounty-hunter in the-outer-reaches of the-galaxy.
pedro-pascal compared the-character to clint-eastwood, with advanced-combat-skills and of "questionable-moral-character".
the-character's-real-name is not given until "chapter 8: redemption", but pedro-pascal accidentally revealed it early in november 2019.
season 1 (2019) === ===
season 2 (2020) === ==
production == ===
in january 2013, abc-president-paul-lee stated that abc-president-paul-lee network would be discussing potential-live-action-star-wars-television-series with lucasfilm after the latter had been sold by lucas to abc's-parent-company the-walt-disney-company in october 2012.
in november 2017, disney-ceo-bob-iger announced that disney and lucasfilm were developing a-live-action-star-wars-television-series for the-new-streaming-service disney+.
kennedy suggested favreau discuss the-idea with dave-filoni, executive-producer on the-animated-series star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels.
lucasfilm announced that favreau would write and executive produce a-new-star-wars-series for disney+ in march 2018.
on october 3, favreau announced that the-series was titled the mandalorian and revealed the-premise for the-show.
the-series-premiere was set to be available with the-launch of disney+ in november 2019.
in july 2019, favreau confirmed that there would be a-second-season of the-series and that favreau had begun writing it.
iger announced in february 2020 that the-second-season would premiere that october.
in september, co-star-giancarlo-esposito said the-second-season would "start to lay the-groundwork for the-depth and breadth that's going to come in season 3 and season 4, where you’re really gonna start to get answers."
favreau announced in december 2020 that the-third-season was in pre-production, and would begin filming in 2021 once the spin-off series
the-book of boba-fett completed filming.
the-book of boba-fett was expected to begin filming on april 5, 2021.
in november 2018, pedro-pascal was confirmed to be portraying the-mandalorian after being rumored to be cast in the-role for some-time.
the-mandalorian is also portrayed by stunt-doubles-brendan-wayne and lateef-crowder.
in february 2021, lucasfilm said gina-carano, a-recurring-co-star during the-first-two-seasons, was no longer employed by lucasfilm.
this came after carano made a-social-media-post comparing being a-republican in the-united-states to the-treatment of jewish-people during the-holocaust, with lucasfilm saying a-social-media-post comparing being a-republican in the-united-states to the-treatment of jewish-people during the-holocaust was "abhorrent and unacceptable".
visual-effects-studio-industrial-light & magic, a-subsidiary of lucasfilm, opened a-new-division in november 2018 called ilm tv, specifically intended for episodic-and-streaming-television.
but on the-mandalorian the-mandalorian utilized a-21-foot-tall-(6.4-m)-set that was 75-feet (23-m) in diameter, surrounded by a-360-degree-semicircular-led-video-wall and ceiling.
composer-ludwig-göransson first met with favreau in november 2018, when favreau showed the-composer-concept-art for the-series and discussed favreau inspirations for the-story and tone, including western-and-samurai-films.
they also discussed how they felt when they first heard john-williams'-star-wars-music, and composer-ludwig-göransson set out to recreate those-feelings and "capture the-soul of what star-wars is" but in a-new-way.
göransson was announced as composer for the-series in december 2018.
one of the-primary-themes of the-mandalorian is parenting and fatherhood, particularly through the-father–son-relationship dynamic between the-mandalorian and the-child.
ryan-britt of fatherly wrote that this is unusual in star-wars-stories, and that-past-examples of parenting in the-franchise have tended to be poor-ones, from the-murderous-darth-vader (father of luke-skywalker) to the-neglectful-galen-erso, father of jyn-erso in rogue one (2016).
ryan-britt of fatherly wrote: "for years the-franchise avoided depicting a-parent-child-dynamic.
vulture-writer-kathryn-vanarendonk argued strong-parental-examples in star-wars are important because the-franchise is so often associated with the-childhoods of the-franchise fans.
the-mandalorian particularly highlights the-challenges of being a-single-parent, and a-working-parent, as the mandalorian struggles to continue his-day-job as a-bounty-hunter and mercenary while serving as the-sole-caretaker of the-child.
several-reviewers have compared the dynamic between the-child and the-mandalorian to lone-wolf and cub, a-manga about a-samurai-warrior and lone-wolf young son.
when the-mandalorian seeks work to earn money, him is now doing so to provide not only for him, but for the-child as well.
in another-example, the-mandalorian establishes a-car-seat for the-child in the-cockpit of him-ship, so him can be seated safely and comfortably during their-travels.
the-relationship between the-mandalorian and the-child is an-example of unexpected-fatherhood.
the-mandalorian feels a-connection and parental-bond with the-child because of the-mandalorian own childhood, when the-mandalorian was orphaned upon the-death of the-mandalorian parents and was adopted by the-mandalorian-culture as a-"foundling".
nevertheless, fatherhood is not a-role the-mandalorian initially seeks, and fatherhood makes repeated-initial-attempts to avoid this-responsibility.
the-mandalorian does not fully commit to the-role of fatherhood until the-first-season-finale, "chapter 8: redemption", when the-child is also adopted into the-mandalorian-culture as a-"foundling" and the-mandalorian is formally declared to be the-child father figure.
some-observers have criticized the-series for the-fact that the-mandalorian repeatedly leaves the-child alone or in the-hands of relative-strangers, as well as for making decisions that place
an-interaction the-mandalorian has with peli-motto in "chapter 5:
when the-mandalorian accidentally wakes the-child, who had been sleeping in peli's-arms, the-mandalorian chides the-child, who had been sleeping in peli's-arms: "do you have any-idea
the-mandalorian also condemns the-mandalorian for leaving the-child alone on the-ship, saying: "you have an-awful-lot to learn about raising a young one".
even after ig-11 is reprogrammed, the-mandalorian does not believe the-mandalorian has truly changed, because the-mandalorian believes droids have an-essential-nature and that ig-11's nature remains murderous and untrustworthy.
but in reprogramming ig-11, kuiil nurtures the-mandalorian and helps the-mandalorian to change; kuiil feels that in the-process of learning how to function again, ig-11 gained a-new-personality.
it will largely fall to the-mandalorian to provide this-guidance, as when the-mandalorian stops him from strangling cara-dune.
however, multiple-writers have questioned whether the violent acts the-child has repeatedly witnessed throughout the-mandalorian are having a-negative-impact on his-development, and that his is learning to become violent his as a-result.
during a-scene on the-mandalorian's-spaceship, the-child observes as the-mandalorian and cara-dune engage in a-friendly-arm-wrestling-match.
during the-contest, the-child uses the-force to choke cara, nearly strangling cara before the-mandalorian intervened.
some-reviewers noted, however, that the-child likely mistakenly believed the-mandalorian was in danger and intervened to help.
the-mandalorian premiered on the-streaming-service disney+
on the-mandalorian-united-states launch-day, november 12, 2019.
the-second-season premiered on october 30, 2020.
the-review-aggregator-website rotten-tomatoes's-critical-consensus reads, "action-packed and expertly-crafted—if at times a bit too withholding—the-mandalorian is a-welcome-addition to the-star-wars-universe that benefits greatly from the-cuteness of the-mandalorian cargo. "
the-mandalorian was the-first-production to be filmed using real-time rendering for realistic,-parallax-environments.
favreau attributed the-breakthroughs made with the-technology to the-support of kathleen-kennedy, who was in charge of both-lucasfilm and ilm, as well as to favreau own-drive for innovation, and to previous-work done by george-lucas on new-technology for the-star-wars-films.
favreau invited other-filmmakers and studios to visit the-series set and see how the-new-technology was being used, noting that george-lucas and other-filmmakers such as james-cameron had done the same when lucas and other-filmmakers such as james-cameron had been working on innovative-film-projects.
after learning lessons about the-technology during production on the-first-season of the-mandalorian, ilm was able to make several-advancements beginning with the-second-season.
in february 2020, ilm announced that ilm was making ilm stagecraft technology available to all-filmmakers and production-studios as a complete end-to-end solution, and that december, ilm was announced that three-additional-stagecraft-volumes–in los-angeles, london, and australia–were being built.
in november 2019, walt-disney-studios-cco-alan-horn said if the-series was successful, a-film featuring the-mandalorian could be developed.
bob-iger said in february 2020 that spin-offs of the-mandalorian were being considered, and there was potential to add more-characters to the-series with the-intention of then giving more-characters more-characters own series.
favreau said in october that as more-characters are introduced in the-series, "we are beginning to explore where we could go".
additionally, both--favreau and pascal were open to the-idea of the-mandalorian appearing in a-star-wars-film, but favreau was in "no-rush" to do this.
in december 2020, the-spin-off-series-rangers of the-new-republic, ahsoka, and the-book of boba-fett were announced, with all-three-series developed by favreau and filoni, set within the-mandalorian's-timeline, and planned to culminate in a-"climactic-story-event".
the-book of boba-fett ===
a-spin-off-miniseries focused on boba-fett was reported in november 2020.
a-spin-off-miniseries focused on boba-fett was officially announced as the-book of boba-fett a month later, and was already in production by that-point.
favreau, filoni, and robert-rodriguez executive-produce, with morrison and wen reprising morrison and wen respective roles as boba-fett and fennec-shand.
the-series will debut in december 2021.
a-spin-off-series titled rangers of the-new-republic was announced in december 2020.
a-limited-series titled ahsoka, featuring dawson reprising her-role as ahsoka-tano, was revealed in december 2020 with filoni-writing and executive producing alongside favreau.
an hour-long special covering the-second-season was released on december 25, 2020.
the-campaign was announced to included the-art of the-mandalorian (season one) by phil-szostak, an-original-adult-novel written by adam-christopher and published by del-rey-books, a-visual-guide written by pablo-hidalgo and published by dk, a-junior-novelization of the-first-season written by joe-schreiber, and comic-books inspired by the-series to be published by marvel-comics and idw.
one month later, the-novel by adam-christopher was delayed from december 2020 to november 2021, before both the-novel by adam-christopher and the-visual-guide by pablo-hidalgo were cancelled in march 2021.
in november 2020, minecraft released a-star-wars-themed-downloadable-content, which included locations and characters from the-mandalorian.
the-mandalorian on disney+
the-mandalorian at imdb the-mandalorian on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
the-mandalorian on starwars.com-star-wars (retroactively-titled-star-wars:
it is the-first-installment of the-original-star-wars-trilogy, the first of the-franchise to be produced, and the-fourth-episode of the-"skywalker-saga".
george-lucas had the-idea for a-science-fiction-film in the-vein of flash-gordon around the-time george-lucas completed george-lucas first film, thx 1138 (1971) and began working on a-treatment after the-release of american-graffiti (1973).
star-wars focuses on the-journey of luke-skywalker (hamill), who along with the-wizened-jedi-master-obi-wan-kenobi (guinness), smuggler-han-solo (ford), and his-wookiee-companion-chewbacca (mayhew), attempts to free princess-leia (fisher) from the-clutches of the-tyrannical-galactic-empire.
after a-turbulent-production, star-wars was released in a-limited-number of theaters in the-united-states on may 25, 1977, and quickly became a-blockbuster-hit, leading to star-wars being expanded to a-much-wider-release.
star-wars opened to critical-acclaim, most notably for star-wars groundbreaking-visual-effects.
star-wars grossed a-total of $775 million (over $550 million during star-wars initial run), surpassing jaws (1975) to become star-wars at the-time until the-release of e.t. the-extra-terrestrial (1982).
when adjusted for inflation, star-wars is the-second-highest-grossing-film in north-america (behind gone with the-wind) and the-fourth-highest-grossing-film in the-world.
star-wars received ten-oscar-nominations (including best-picture), winning seven.
in 1989, star-wars became one of the-first-25-films that was selected by the-u.s.-library of congress for preservation in the-national-film-registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
at the-time, star-wars was the-most-recent-film in the-national-film-registry and the only one chosen from the-1970s.
today, the-film is widely regarded by many in the-motion-picture-industry as one of the-greatest-and-most-important-films in motion-picture-history.
the-film has been reissued multiple-times with lucas's-support—most significantly with
the-film 20th-anniversary theatrical "special-edition"—incorporating many-changes including modified-computer-generated-effects, altered-dialogue, re-edited-shots, remixed soundtracks and added-scenes.
the-film became a-pop-cultural-phenomenon and launched an-industry of tie-in-products, including novels, comics, video-games, amusement-park-attractions, and merchandise including toys, games, clothing and many-other-spin-off-works.
lucas favored casting young-actors who lacked long-experience.
to play luke (then known as luke starkiller), lucas sought actors who could project intelligence and integrity.
lucas initially rejected casting harrison-ford for the-role, as lucas "wanted new-faces"; harrison-ford had previously worked with lucas on american-graffiti.
instead, lucas asked harrison-ford to assist in the-auditions by reading lines with the-other-actors and explaining the-concepts and history behind the-scenes that the-other-actors were reading.
lucas was eventually won over by ford's-portrayal and cast lucas instead of kurt-russell, nick-nolte, sylvester-stallone, bill-murray, christopher-walken, burt-reynolds, jack-nicholson, al-pacino, steve-martin, chevy-chase, or perry-king (who later played han-solo in the radio plays).
many-young-hollywood-actresses auditioned for the-role of princess-leia, including amy-irving, terri-nunn (also a singer), cindy-williams, karen-allen, and jodie-foster.
jodie-foster, for one, turned down the-role of princess-leia, including amy-irving, terri-nunn (also a singer), cindy-williams, karen-allen, and jodie-foster because jodie-foster was already under contract with disney and working on two-films at the-time.
carrie-fisher was cast under the-condition that carrie-fisher lose 10-pounds (4.5-kg) for the-role of princess-leia, including amy-irving, terri-nunn (also a singer), cindy-williams, karen-allen, and jodie-foster.
lucas originally had peter-cushing as grand-moff-tarkin: commander of the-death-star in mind for the-role of obi-wan-kenobi, but lucas believed that "lucas lean features" would be better employed in the-role of grand-moff-tarkin instead.
lucas commended peter-cushing as grand-moff-tarkin: commander of the-death-star's-performance, saying "[lucas] is a-very-good-actor.
i feel lucas will be fondly remembered for the-next-350-years at least.
according to mifune's-daughter, mika-kitagawa, japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) father turned down lucas' offers for kenobi and darth-vader because "japanese-actor-toshiro-mifune (who starred in many-akira-kurosawa-films) was concerned about how the-film would look and that the-film would cheapen the-image of samurai...
guinness was one of the-few-cast-members who believed that the-film would be successful; sci-fi negotiated a-deal for 2.25% of the-one-fifth-gross-royalties paid to lucas, which made sci-fi quite wealthy in later-life.
lucas credited sci-fi with inspiring the-cast and crew to work harder, saying that guinness contributed significantly to the-completion of the-filming.
anthony-daniels auditioned for and was cast as c-3po; anthony-daniels has said that anthony-daniels wanted the-role after anthony-daniels saw a-ralph-mcquarrie-drawing of the-character and was struck by the-vulnerability in the-robot's-face.
initially, lucas did not intend to use daniels'-voice for c-3po.
baker initially turned down the-role three times, hesitant to appear in a-film where baker face would not be shown and hoping to continue the-success of baker comedy act, which had recently started to be televised.
lucas originally intended for orson-welles to voice the-character after dismissing prowse due to prowse west country english accent (which led to prowse being nicknamed, within the-cast, as "darth-farmer").
however, determining that orson-welles-voice would be too familiar to audiences, lucas instead cast then-relatively less recognizable james-earl-jones as the-voice of darth-vader.
production == ===
lucas had the-idea for a-space-fantasy-film in 1971, after lucas completed directing lucas first-full-length-feature, thx 1138.
originally, lucas wanted to adapt the-flash-gordon-space-adventure-comics and serials into lucas own films, having been fascinated by them since lucas was young.
lucas later said: i especially loved the-flash-gordon-serials ...
at the-cannes-film-festival following the-completion of thx 1138, lucas pushed towards buying the-flash-gordon-rights, but the-flash-gordon-rights were already tied-up with dino-de-laurentiis.
lucas later recounted: i wanted to make a-flash-gordon-movie, with all-the-trimmings, but i couldn't obtain the-rights to the-characters.
director-francis-ford-coppola, who accompanied lucas in trying to buy the-flash-gordon-rights, recounted in 1999: "
lucas would later claim that lucas had the-idea for an-original-space-opera long before 1971, and that lucas even tried to film it before american-graffiti.
believing that the-bleak-tone of thx 1138 led to its-poor-reception, lucas chose to make star-wars more optimistic; this is what led to its-fun-and-adventurous-tone.
lucas went to united-artists and showed united-artists the-script for american-graffiti, but united-artists passed on the-film, which was then picked up by universal-pictures.
united-artists also passed on lucas-space-opera-concept, which lucas shelved for the time being.
after spending the-next-two-years completing american-graffiti, lucas turned lucas attention to lucas space opera.
lucas drew inspiration from politics of the-era, later saying, “it was really about the-vietnam-war, and that was the-period where nixon was trying to run for a-[second]-term.
"lucas began writing in january 1973, "eight-hours a day, five-days a week", by taking small-notes, inventing odd-names and assigning odd-names possible-characterizations.
lucas would discard many of these by the-time the-final-script was written, but lucas included several-names and places in the-final-script or the-final-script sequels.
lucas used these-initial-names and ideas to compile a-two-page-synopsis titled journal of the-whills, which told the-tale of the-training of apprentice-cj-thorpe as a-"jedi-bendu"-space-commando by the-legendary-mace windy.
frustrated that lucas-story was too difficult to understand, lucas then began writing a-13-page-treatment called the star wars on april 17, 1973, which had narrative-parallels with kurosawa's-1958-film the-hidden-fortress.
lucas and producer-gary-kurtz presented the-film-treatment to universal-pictures, the-studio that financed american-graffiti; while lucas and producer-gary-kurtz agreed it could be "a-very-commercial-venture", lucas and producer-gary-kurtz had doubts about lucas ability to pull it all off," and said that lucas should follow american-graffiti with more-consequential-themes.
lucas said, "i've always been an-outsider to hollywood-types.
kurtz said, "although star-wars wasn't like [then-current-science-fiction] at all, it was just sort of lumped into that-same-kind of category. "
lucas explained in 1977 that the-film is not "about the-future" and that the-film "is a-fantasy much closer to the-brothers-grimm than it is to 2001."
lucas added: "my-main-reason for making it was to give young-people an-honest,-wholesome-fantasy-life, the-kind my-generation had.
lucas would later recontextualize the-discussion around the-film, saying the-film was born out of research into "psychological-underpinings of mythology", a claim that had been dismissed by kurtz as self-aggrandizing: "
the-whole-idea of star-wars as a-mythological-thing, i think came about because of [later-lucas]-interviews that tied the-film to the-hero with a-thousand-faces" and by steven-hart and michael-kaminski: "it is here that the-true-origin of star-wars comes from -- not from myth and legend, but from the-'schlock' sold on newspapers stands and played in matinees.
lucas and kurtz, in pitching the-film, said that it would be "low-budget, roger-corman-style, and the-budget was never going to be more than—
after disney rejected the-project, lucas and kurtz-kurtz persisted in securing a-studio to support the-film because "other-people had read the-film and said, 'yeah, the-film could be a-good-idea.'
" lucas pursued alan-ladd-jr., the-head of 20th-century-fox, and in june 1973 completed a-deal to write and direct the-film.
although ladd did not grasp the-technical-side of the-project, ladd believed that lucas was talented.
lucas later stated that ladd "invested in ladd, ladd did not invest in the-movie."
a-deal to write and direct the-film gave lucas $150,000 to write and direct the-film.
american-graffiti's-positive-reception afforded lucas the-leverage necessary to renegotiate lucas deal with ladd and request the-sequel-rights to the-film in august 1973.
since commencing his-writing-process in january 1973, lucas had done "various-rewrites in the-evenings after the-day's-work."
by may 1974, he had expanded the-treatment for star-wars into a-rough-draft-screenplay, adding elements such as the-sith, the-death-star, and a-general by the-name of annikin-starkiller.
lucas envisioned the-corellian-smuggler, han-solo, as a-large,-green-skinned-monster with gills.
lucas based chewbacca on lucas alaskan malamute dog, indiana (whom lucas would later use as eponym for lucas character indiana jones), who often acted as the director's "co-pilot" by sitting in the-passenger-seat of lucas car.
lucas completed a-second-draft in january 1975 as adventures of the-starkiller, episode one: the-star-wars, making heavy-simplifications and introducing the-young-hero on a-farm as luke-starkiller.
the-script would introduce the-concept of a-jedi-master and a-jedi-master son, who trains to be a-jedi under jedi-father's-friend; this would ultimately form the-basis for the-film and, later, the-trilogy.
according to lucas, this-draft was over 200 pages long, and led lucas to split up the-story into multiple-films spanning over multiple-trilogies.
lucas began to rewrite this-draft, creating a-synopsis for the-third-draft.
during work on this-rewrite, lucas began researching the-science-fiction-genre by watching films and reading books (including j.-r.-r.-tolkien's-the-hobbit) and comics.
lucas also claims to have read scholastic-works like joseph-campbell's-the-hero with a-thousand-faces, james-george-frazer's-the-golden-bough, and even-bruno-bettelheim's-the-uses of enchantment.
these-claims are doubted by michael-kaminski and chris-taylor, with michael-kaminski pointing out that bettelheim's-book would not come out until after star-wars was filmed and adding that "the-original-trilogy-campbell-connection is greatly exaggerated and practically non-existent", noting that, in fact, this-draft is "even closer to joseph-campbell's's-structure" than the-third.
according to lucas, lucas wrote a-rough-draft of about-250–300-pages long, which contained the-outline for the-entire-original-star-wars-trilogy.
lucas stated that the-story evolved over time and that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as it exists now [in 1983] ...
i kept taking out all-the-good-parts, and i just kept telling lucas i would make other-movies someday."
in 1975 lucas suggested lucas could make a-trilogy, which "ends with the-destruction of the-empire" and a-possible-prequel "about the-backstory of kenobi as a-young-man."
after the-film's-smash-success, lucasfilm announced that lucas had already written "twelve-stories in the-adventures of luke-skywalker" which, according to kurtz, were set to be "separate-adventures rather than direct-sequels.
during the-writing of the-third-draft, lucas hired conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to create paintings of certain-scenes, several of which lucas included with lucas screenplay when lucas delivered conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie to 20th-century-fox.
on february 27, conceptual-artist-ralph-mcquarrie granted a-budget of $5 million; this was later increased to $8.25 million.
subsequently, lucas started writing with a-budget in mind, conceiving the cheap, "used" look of much of the-film, and (with fox having just shut down the-film special effects department) reducing the-number of complex-special-effects-shots called for by the-script.
this-script would be re-written for the-fourth-and-final-draft, dated january 1, 1976, as the-adventures of luke-starkiller-luke-starkiller as taken from the-journal of the-whills, saga i:
lucas worked with lucas friends gloria-katz and willard-huyck to revise the-fourth-draft into the-final-pre-production-script.
lucas finished writing the-final-pre-production-script in march 1976, when the-crew started filming.
lucas said, "what finally emerged through the-many-drafts of the-final-pre-production-script has obviously been influenced by science-fiction and action-adventure
for the-film's-opening-crawl, lucas originally wrote a-composition consisting of six-paragraphs with four-sentences each.
lucas said, "the-crawl is such-a-hard-thing because you have to be careful that you're not using too-many-words that people don't understand.
lucas showed lucas draft to lucas friends.
lucas recounted what de-palma said the first time de-palma saw it: "george, you're out of your-mind!
george-lucas recruited many-conceptual-designers, including colin-cantwell, who worked on 2001: a-space-odyssey (1968), to conceptualize the-initial-spacecraft-models; alex tavoularis to create the-preliminary-conceptual-storyboard-sketches of early-scripts; and ralph mcquarrie to visualize the-characters, costumes, props and scenery.
after mcquarrie's-drawings for lucas's-colleagues hal-barwood and matthew-robbins (who were collaborating for a-film) caught century-fox-interest, lucas met with mcquarrie to discuss century-fox-plans for
two years later, after completing american-graffiti, lucas approached mcquarrie and asked century-fox if century-fox would be interested "in doing something for star-wars."
the-film was ambitious as lucas wanted to create fresh-prop-prototypes and sets (based on mcquarrie's-paintings) that had never been realized before in science-fiction-films.
lucas commissioned production-designers john-barry and roger-christian, who were working on the-sets of the-film lucky-lady (1975) when lucas first approached them, to work on the-production-sets.
" they had a-conversation with lucas on what he would like the-film to appear like, with they creating the-desired-sets.
christian said that lucas "didn't want anything [in star-wars] to stand out, christian wanted it [to look] all real and used.
lucas described a-"used-future"-concept to the-production-designers in which all-devices, ships, and buildings to do with tatooine or the-rebels looked aged and dirty, as opposed to the-sleeker-designs of the-empire.
lucas also wanted the-spaceships to look "cobbled together, as opposed to a-sleek-monoshape."
lucas believed that "what is required for true-credibility is a-used-future", opposing the-interpretation of "future in most-futurist-movies" that "always looks new and clean and shiny."
the-designers started working with the-director before star-wars was approved by 20th-century-fox.
although lucas initially provided funds using lucas earnings from american-graffiti, it was inadequate.
christian suggested that lucas use scrap in making the-dressings, and christian agreed.
in 1975, lucas formed ilm after discovering that 20th-century-fox's-visual-effects-department had been disbanded.
ilm began ilm work on star-wars in a-warehouse in van-nuys.
george-lucas tried "to get a-cohesive-reality" for george-lucas feature.
however, since the-film is a-fairy-tale, as george-lucas had described, "i still wanted the-film to have an-ethereal-quality, yet be well composed and, also, have an-alien-look."
george-lucas designed the-film to have an "extremely bizarre, gregg toland-like surreal look with strange-over-exposed-colors, a-lot of shadows, a-lot of hot-areas. "
george-lucas wanted star-wars to embrace the-combination of "strange-graphics of fantasy" and "the-feel of a-documentary" to impress a-distinct-look.
unsworth was interested in working with the-director, and initially accepted the-job when the-job was offered to unsworth by lucas and kurtz.
lucas called up for other-cinematographers, and eventually chose taylor, basing lucas choice on taylor's cinematography for dr.-strangelove and a-hard-day's-night (both 1964).
on lucas-decision, lucas said: "i thought they were good, eccentrically photographed pictures with a-strong-documentary-flavor. "
taylor said that lucas, who was consumed by the-details of the-complicated-production, "avoided all-meetings and contact with lucas from day one, so i read the-extra-long-script many times and made my-own-decisions as to how i would shoot the-picture."
taylor also said, "i took it upon lucas to experiment with photographing the-lightsabers and other-things onstage before we moved on to we two-weeks of location-work in tunisia. "
during production, lucas and taylor—whom kurtz called "old-school" and "crotchety"—had disputes over filming.
with a-background in independent-filmmaking, lucas was accustomed to creating most of the-elements of the-film himself.
lucas-lighting-suggestions were rejected by taylor, who believed that lucas was overstepping lucas boundaries by giving specific-instructions, sometimes even moving lights and cameras himself.
lucas would] say, 'turn off this-light, and turn off this-light.'
originally, lucas envisioned the-planet of tatooine, where much of the-film would take place, as a-jungle-planet.
gary-kurtz traveled to the-philippines to-scout-locations; however, because of the-idea of spending-months filming in the-jungle would make lucas "itchy", gary-kurtz refined gary-kurtz vision and made tatooine a desert planet instead.
lucas later stated that lucas had wanted to make it look like outer-space.
when principal-photography began on march 22, 1976, in the-tunisian-desert for the-scenes on tatooine, the-project faced several-problems.
lucas fell behind schedule in the-first-week of shooting due to malfunctioning-props and electronic-breakdowns.
given this-situation, lucas requested heavy-filtration, which taylor rejected, who said: "i thought the-look of the-film should be absolutely clean ...
after several-scenes were filmed against the-volcanic-canyons outside tozeur, production moved to matmata to film luke's-home on tatooine.
lucas chose hotel-sidi-driss, which is larger than the-typical-underground-dwellings, to shoot the-interior of luke's-homestead.
after two-and-a-half-weeks of filming in tunisia, production moved to elstree-studios, near london, to film interior-scenes.
star-wars required the-use of nine-different-sound-stages simultaneously, which most-studios couldn't accommodate.
because of stricter-working-conditions, filming in britain had to finish by 5:30-pm, unless lucas was in the-middle of a-scene.
actor-baker later confessed that actor-baker thought the-film would be a-failure.
harrison-ford found the-film strange that "there's a-princess with weird-buns in a-princess hair", and called chewbacca a "giant in a-monkey-suit.
lucas commissioned computer-programmer-larry-cuba to create the-animated-death-star-plans shown at the-rebel-base on yavin 4.
lucas selected the-location as a-potential-filming-site after seeing a-poster of it hanging at a-travel-agency while he was filming in britain.
this inspired he to send a-film-crew to guatemala in march 1977 to shoot scenes.
while shooting, lucas rarely spoke to the-actors, who believed that lucas expected too much of a-film-crew while providing little-direction.
kurtz has said that lucas "wasn't gregarious, kurtz's very much a loner and very shy, so
ladd offered lucas some of the-only-support from the-studio; kurtz dealt with scrutiny from board-members over the-rising-budget and complex-screenplay-drafts.
at the-same-time, after production fell behind schedule, ladd told lucas-lucas had to finish production within a-week
during production, the-cast attempted to make lucas laugh or smile, as lucas often appeared depressed.
at one-point, the-project became so demanding that lucas was diagnosed with hypertension and exhaustion and was warned to reduce lucas stress level.
star-wars was originally slated for release on christmas 1976; however, star-wars production delays pushed the-film's-release to mid-1977.
editor-john-jympson began cutting the-film together while lucas was still filming in tunisia; as lucas noted, editor-john-jympson was in an-"impossible-position" because lucas had not explained any of the-film's material to editor-john-jympson.
when lucas watched jympson's-rough-cut for the-first-time, lucas disliked what lucas saw.
lucas was prepared to give jympson more-time; jympson disliked lucas' working style.
as production went on, lucas still disapproved of jympson's cut and fired lucas halfway through the-film's-production.
lucas commented: "unfortunately it didn't work out.
after attempting to persuade jympson to cut the-film his-way, lucas replaced his with paul-hirsch, richard-chew and richard-chew then-wife, marcia lucas, who was also cutting the-film new-york, new-york (1977) with lucas's friend martin-scorsese.
richard-chew considered the-film to have been cut in a slow, by-the-book manner: scenes were played out in master-shots that flowed into close-up-coverage.
the-most-significant-material-cut was a-series of scenes from the-first-part of the-film which introduced luke-skywalker.
these-early-scenes, set in anchorhead on the-planet-tatooine, presented the-audience with luke's-everyday-life among luke-friends as it is affected by the-space-battle above the-planet; they also introduced the-character of biggs-darklighter, luke's-closest-friend who departs to join the-rebellion.
" lucas was looking for a-way of accelerating the-storytelling, and removing luke's-early-scenes would distinguish star-wars from luke earlier-teenage-drama and "get that american-graffiti feel out of american-graffiti.
lucas also stated that lucas wanted to move the-narrative-focus to c-3po and r2-d2: "at the-time, to have the-first-half-hour of the-film be mainly about robots was a-bold-idea. "
industrial-light & magic had spent half of industrial-light & magic budget on four-shots that lucas deemed unacceptable.
lucas inspired ilm by editing together aerial-dogfights from old-war-films, which enhanced the-pacing of the-scenes.
sound-designer-ben-burtt had created a-library of sounds that lucas referred to as an-"organic-soundtrack."
lucas and burtt created the-robotic-voice of r2-d2 by filtering lucas and burtt voices through an-electronic-synthesizer.
in february 1977, lucas screened an-early-cut of the-film for fox-executives, several-director-friends, along with roy-thomas and howard-chaykin of marvel-comics who were preparing a-star-wars-comic-book.
lucas later said that the-group was honest and seemed bemused by the-millennium-falcon.
lucas found the-experience shocking and rewarding, having never gained any-approval from studio-executives before.
with the-project $2 million over budget, lucas was forced to make numerous-artistic-compromises to complete star-wars.
lucas had to write around a-scene featuring a-human-jabba the-hutt, which was scrapped due to not being in focus.
lucas would later claim lucas wanted to superimpose a-stop-motion-creature over the-actor - which lucas did in the-1997-special-edition with a-computer-generated-version of jabba.
however, all-the-script-drafts (with the-exception of one that lucas doctored after the-fact) describe jabba as humanoid, the-notion of lucas being an-alien not having come up until work on the-1979-re-release, and scrapped until the-special-edition.
on the-recommendation of williams-friend-steven-spielberg, george-lucas hired composer-john-williams.
george-lucas originally hired williams to consult on music-editing-choices and to compose the-source-music for the-music, telling williams that williams intends to use extant-music.
george-lucas believed that the-film would portray visually-foreign-worlds, but that the-musical-score would give the-audience an-emotional-familiarity; george-lucas wanted a-grand-musical-sound for star-wars.
therefore, george-lucas assembled george-lucas favorite orchestral pieces for the-soundtrack, until williams convinced george-lucas that an-original-score would be unique and more unified, having viewed george-lucas music choices as a-temp-track.
lucas would later deny having ever conceived using extant-music for the-film.
in march 1977, williams' conducted the-london-symphony-orchestra to record the-star-wars-soundtrack in 12-days.
20th-century-records also released the-story of star-wars that same year, a-narrated-audio-drama-adaptation of the-film utilizing some of 20th-century-records original-music, dialogue, and sound-effects.
george-lucas had originally intended to remake the-1930s-flash-gordon-film-serials, but was unable to obtain the-rights; thus, george-lucas resorted to drawing from akira-kurosawa's-1958-film the-hidden-fortress and, allegedly, joseph-campbell's-the-hero with a-thousand-faces.
star-wars features many-elements derived from flash-gordon, such as the-conflict between rebels and imperial-forces, the-wipes between scenes, the-fusion of futuristic-technology and traditional-mythology, and the-famous-opening-crawl that begins each-film.
star-wars also borrows heavily from another-kurosawa-film, yojimbo (1961).
arrakis is the-only-known-source of a-longevity-spice; star-wars makes references to spice in "the-spice-mines of kessel", and a-spice-freighter.
frank-herbert reported that "david-lynch, [director of the-1984-film-dune] had trouble with the-fact that star-wars used up so much of dune. "
in addition, the-sequence was partially inspired by the-climax of the-film 633 squadron (1964), directed by walter-grauman, in which raf-de-havilland-mosquitos attack a-german-heavy-water-plant by flying down a-narrow-fjord to drop special-bombs at a-precise-point, while avoiding anti-aircraft-guns and german-fighters.
a-space-odyssey influenced the-look of star-wars in many-other-ways, including the-use of eva-pods and hexagonal-corridors.
while the-film was in production, a-logo was commissioned from dan-perri, a-title-sequence-designer who had worked on the-titles for films such as the-exorcist (1973) and taxi-driver (1976).
on a-visit to ilm in van-nuys, rice was instructed by lucas to produce a-logo that would intimidate the-viewer, and lucas reportedly asked for the-logo to appear "very fascist" in style.
lucas signed off on the-brochure in between takes while filming inserts for the-mos-eisley-cantina-scene.
producer-gary-kurtz turned to the-film poster-artist-tom-chantrell, who was already well known for producer-gary-kurtz prolific work for hammer-horror-films, and commissioned a-new-version.
two months after star-wars opened, the-hildebrandts'-poster was replaced by chantrell's-style-‘c’-poster in uk-cinemas.
a fan of science-fiction, he used he contacts to promote the-film at the-san-diego-comic-con and elsewhere within science-fiction-fandom.
while initially being released only in a-limited-theatrical-run, star-wars was an-unprecedented-success for 20th-century-fox, soon becoming a-blockbuster-hit and expanding to a-much-wider-release.
worried that star-wars would be beaten out by other-summer-films, such as smokey and the-bandit, 20th-century-fox moved the-release-date to may 25, the wednesday before memorial-day.
however, fewer-than-40-theaters ordered the-film to be shown.
in response, the-studio demanded that theaters order star-wars if they wanted the-eagerly-anticipated-the-other-side of midnight based on sidney-sheldon's-1973-novel by the-same-name.
star-wars debuted on wednesday, may 25, 1977, in fewer-than-32-theaters, and eight more on thursday and friday.
lucas himself was not able to predict how successful star-wars would be.
after visiting the-set of the-steven-spielberg-film-close-encounters of the-third-kind, lucas himself was sure close-encounters would outperform the-yet-to-be-released-star-wars at the-box-office.
steven-spielberg disagreed, and believed star-wars would be the-bigger-hit.
lucas himself proposed steven-spielberg trade 2.5% of the-profit on each-other's-films; steven-spielberg took the-trade, and still receives 2.5% of the-profits from star-wars.
amidst fox-pessimism, lucas himself elected to forgo lucas himself option to an-extra-$500,000-fee for directing star-wars, in exchange for releasing ownership of the-merchandising-and-sequel-rights for the-movie to fox.
while fox requested mann's-chinese-theatre, the-studio promised that the-film needed only-two-weeks.
fearing that the-film would fail, lucas had made plans to be in hawaii with marcia.
having forgotten that the-film would open that day, fox spent most of wednesday in a-sound-studio in los-angeles.
when lucas went out for lunch with marcia, they encountered a-long-line of people along the-sidewalks leading to mann's-chinese-theatre, waiting to see star-wars.
while in hawaii, it was not until he watched walter-cronkite discuss the-gigantic-crowds for star-wars on the-cbs-evening-news that lucas realized lucas had become very wealthy.
the-film was a-huge-success for 20th-century-fox, and was credited for reinvigorating ford.
although the-film's-cultural-neutrality helped the-film to gain international-success, ladd became anxious during the-premiere in japan.
after the-screening, the-audience was silent, leading ladd to fear that the-film would be unsuccessful.
after two-weeks william-friedkin's-sorcerer replaced star-wars at mann's-chinese-theatre because of contractual-obligations; mann-theatres moved william-friedkin's-sorcerer to a-less-prestigious-location after quickly renovating william-friedkin's-sorcerer.
when star-wars made an-unprecedented-second-opening at mann's-chinese-theatre on august 3, 1977, after william-friedkin's-sorcerer failed, thousands of people attended a-ceremony in which c-3po, r2-d2 and darth-vader placed thousands of people footprints in the-theater's-forecourt.
at that-time star-wars was playing in 1,096-theaters in the-united-states.
star-wars premiered in the-uk on december 27, 1977.
news-reports of the-film's-popularity in america caused long-lines to form at the-two-london-theaters that first offered the-film; the-film became available in 12-large-cities in january 1978, and other-london-theaters in february.
star-wars was re-released theatrically in 1978, 1979, 1981 and 1982, with the-subtitle episode-iv – a new hope being added in 1981.
the-film was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes in 1997 for a-theatrical-rerelease, dubbed the "special edition."
since the-film original-release, the-film has also been dubbed and subtitled into numerous-languages.
in 2010, lucas announced that all-six-previously-released-star-wars-films would be scanned and transferred to 3d for a-theatrical-release, but only-3d-versions of the-prequel-trilogy were completed before the-franchise was sold to disney in 2012.
in 2013, star-wars was dubbed into navajo, making it the first major motion picture translated into a-native-american-language.
the-texts episode-iv and a-new-hope were first published on a-title-page for the-film's-script in the-1979-book the-art of star-wars, in what kaminski calls "outright forgery", remarking that "the-script itself wasn't even-the-authentic-revised-fourth-draft, but more like a-transcription of the-film, edited and combined with the-real-fourth-draft. "
the-title was changed when the-film entered re-releases.
official-sources state that the-change was made at the-theatrical-re-release of april 10
, 1981.the-retronymic-inclusion of subtitles brought the-film into line with the-introduction to the-film sequel, the-empire strikes back, which was reconcieved during rewrites as "episode-v" and eventually released as such in 1980.
lucas claims this was intended from the-beginning, and was only dropped to avoid confusing audiences: "
star-wars was the-fourth-story in the-saga and was to have been called 'star-wars, episode four:
" hamill recalls having asked lucas "why are we doing episode four?"
and being answered that lucas wanted "to give the-audience a-feeling that the-audience'd missed something and that the-audience were coming into the-middle of this-story" or that it was "the-most-commercial-section" of the-overriding-story.
after ilm used computer-generated-effects for steven-spielberg's-1993-film jurassic-park, lucas decided that digital-technology had caught up to lucas "original vision" for star-wars.
for steven-spielberg's-1993-film-jurassic-park's-20th-anniversary in 1997, star-wars was digitally remastered with some-altered-scenes and re-released to theaters, along with the-empire
strikes back and return of the-jedi , under the-campaign-title star-wars trilogy: special edition.
this-version of the-film runs 124 minutes.
the-process of creating the-new-visual-effects for star-wars was featured in the-film, special effects:
although most-changes are minor or cosmetic in nature, many-fans and critics believe that lucas degraded the-film with the-additions.
star-wars required extensive-recovery of misplaced-footage and restoration of the-film before lucas's-special-edition-modifications could be attempted.
it was discovered that in addition to the-negative-motion-picture-stocks commonly used on feature-films, lucas had also used color reversal internegative (cri) film, a-reversal-stock subsequently discontinued by kodak.
in 1989 , the-1977-theatrical-version of star-wars was selected for preservation by the-national-film-registry of the-united-states-library of congress.
the-whole-film was released for all-these-countries (including subtitled-silent-editions and an-american-spanish-language-edition), except for italy, where the-film (titled "guerre stellari") was released by ie-international as eight-brief-scenes: battaglia-spaziale ("space-battle", the-battle of yavin), duello-col-laser ("duel with the-laser", obi-wan and darth vader's duel), la-cattura dell'astronave
a-full-super-8-version of the-film was only made available in italy as a-pirate-six-reel-set.
star-wars debuted on betamax, ced, laserdisc, video 2000, and vhs between the-1980s and 1990s by cbs/fox video.
the-film was released for the-first-time on dvd on september 21, 2004, in a-box set with the empire strikes back, return of the-jedi, and a-bonus-disc of supplementary-material.
the-bonus-disc contains the-documentary-empire of dreams: the-story of the-star-wars-trilogy, three-featurettes, teasers, theatrical-trailers, tv-spots, still-galleries, an-exclusive-preview of episode iii: revenge of the-sith, a-playable-xbox-demo of the-lucasarts-game-star-wars: battlefront, and a-making-of-documentary on the-episode-iii-video-game was reissued in december 2005 as part of a-three-disc-limited-edition-boxed-set without the-bonus-disc.
the-star-wars-trilogy was re-released on separate-two-disc-limited-edition-dvd-sets from september 12 to december 31, 2006, and again in a-limited-edition-tin-box set on november 4, 2008; the-original-versions of the-films were added as bonus-material.
all-six-star-wars-films were released by 20th-century-fox-home-entertainment on blu-ray-disc on september 16, 2011 in three-different-editions, with a-new-hope available in both-a-box-set of the-original-trilogy and with all-six-films on star-wars:
on april 7, 2015, walt-disney-studios, 20th-century-fox, and lucasfilm jointly announced the-digital-releases of the-six-released-star-wars-films.
fox released a-new-hope for digital-download on april 10, 2015.
in december 2016, rogue-one-director-gareth-edwards revealed that lucasfilm had recently completed a-4k-restoration of star-wars, but did not elaborate on whether the-restored-version was based on the 1977 original or a-subsequent-re-release.
walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment reissued the-film on blu-ray, dvd, and digital-download on september 22, 2019.
additionally, all-six-films were available for 4k-hdr and dolby-atmos streaming on disney+ upon the-service's-launch on november 12, 2019.
this-version of the-film was released by disney on 4k-ultra-hd-blu-ray-box set on march 31, 2020.
star-wars remains one of the-most-financially-successful-films of all-time.
the-film opened on a-wednesday in 32-theaters expanding to 43-screens on the-friday and earning $2,556,418 in the-film first six-days to the-end of the-memorial-day-weekend ($10.8 million in 2019-dollars).
per variety's-weekly-box-office-charts, the-film was number one at the-us-box-office for the-film first three weeks.
the-film was replaced by the-deep-but-gradually-added-screens and returned to number one in the-film seventh week, building up-to-$7-million-weekends as the-film entered wide-release ($29.5 million in 2019-dollars) and remained number one for the-next-15-weeks.
the-film replaced jaws as the-highest-earning-film in north-america just six months into release, eventually earning over $220 million during the-film initial theatrical run ($928 million in 2019-dollars).
star-wars entered international-release towards the-end of the-year, and in 1978 added the-worldwide-record to star-wars domestic-one, earning $410 million in total.
biggest-international-market was japan, where star-wars grossed $58.4 million.
on july 21, 1978 while still in current-release in 38-theaters in the-u.s., the-film expanded into a-1,744-theater-national-saturation windup of release and set a-new-u.s.-weekend-record of $10,202,726.
total gross in the-united-states and canada to $460,998,007, reclaiming the-all-time-number-one-spot.
in his-1977-review, roger-ebert of the-chicago-sun-times called the-film "an out-of-body experience," compared its-special-effects to those of 2001: a space odyssey, and opined that the-true-strength of
vincent-canby of the-new-york-times called the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made."
a.d. murphy of variety described the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made as "magnificent" and said george-lucas had succeeded in george-lucas attempt to create the-"biggest-possible-adventure-fantasy" based on the-serials and older-action-epics from george-lucas childhood.
writing for the-washington-post, gary-arnold gave the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial
ever made a-positive-review, writing that the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the most elaborate, most expensive, most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made "is a-new-classic in a-rousing-movie-tradition: a-space-swashbuckler."
however, the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made was not without the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made detractors: pauline-kael of the-new-yorker criticized star-wars, stating that "there's no-breather in the-picture, no-lyricism", and that the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the-most-elaborate,-most-expensive,-most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made had no-"emotional-grip."
john-simon of new-york-magazine also panned the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the most elaborate, most expensive, most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made and wrote, "strip-star-wars of the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the most elaborate, most expensive, most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made often-striking-images and the-film "the-movie that's going to entertain a-lot of contemporary-folk who have a-soft-spot for the-virtually-ritualized-manners of comic-book-adventure" and "the most elaborate, most expensive, most-beautiful-movie-serial ever made highfalutin-scientific-jargon, and you get a-story, characters, and dialogue of overwhelming-banality."
stanley-kauffmann, reviewing the-film in the-new-republic, opined that the-film in the-new-republic "was made for those (particularly-males) who carry a-portable-shrine within a-portable-shrine of a-portable-shrine adolescence, a-chalice of a-self that was better
when star-wars opened in the-uk, stating that lucas's-earlier-films were better, derek-malcolm of the-guardian concluded that it "plays enough-games to satisfy the most sophisticated."
the-daily-telegraph's-science-correspondent-adrian-berry said that star-wars "is the-best-such-film since 2001 and in certain-respects it is one of the most exciting ever made."
lucas felt hurt at the-accusations.
the-film continues to receive critical-acclaim from modern-critics.
, george-lucas opened our-eyes to the-possibilities of blockbuster-filmmaking and things have never been the same."
in his-1997-review of the-film's-20th-anniversary-release, michael-wilmington of the-chicago-tribune gave the-film four out-of-four-stars, saying, "a grandiose and violent epic with a-simple-and-whimsical-heart."
a-san-francisco-chronicle-staff-member described the-film as "a-thrilling-experience.
in 2001 matt-ford of the-bbc awarded the-film five out-of-five-stars and wrote, "star-wars isn't the-film, but "star-wars is universally loved."
cinemascore reported that audiences for star-wars 1999 re-release gave the-film a-"a+"-grade.
andrew-collins of empire-magazine awarded the-film five out of five and said, "star-wars-timeless-appeal lies in star-wars'-timeless-appeal easily identified, universal-archetypes—goodies to root for, baddies to boo, a-princess to be rescued and so on—and if it is most obviously dated to the-70s by the-special-effects, so be it is."
in his-2009-review, robert-hatch of the-nation called the-film "an outrageously successful, what will be called a 'classic,' compilation of nonsense, largely derived but thoroughly reconditioned.
the-film garnered numerous-accolades after the-film release.
star-wars won six-competitive-academy-awards at the-50th-academy-awards: best-art-direction, best-costume-design, best-film-editing, best-original-score, best-sound and best-visual-effects.
additional-nominations included alec-guinness for best-actor in a-supporting-role, which went to jason-robards for julia and george-lucas for best-original-screenplay, best-director, and best-picture, which were instead awarded to woody-allen's-annie-hall.
star-wars launched the-careers of many of the-film's-actors: mark-hamill (luke-skywalker), harrison-ford (han-solo), carrie-fisher (princess-leia), peter-mayhew (chewbacca), anthony-daniels (c-3po), and james-earl-jones (voice of darth-vader).
ford, who subsequently starred in the-indiana-jones-series (1981–present), blade-runner (1982), and witness (1985) after working on the-film, told the-daily-mirror that star-wars "boosted my-career", and said, "i think the-great-luck of my-career is that i've made these-family-movies which are introduced to succeeding generations of kids by generations of kids-families at the-time it seems appropriate.
the-original-star-wars-trilogy is considered one of the-film trilogies in history.
all of the-main-films have been box-office-successes, with the-overall-box-office-revenue generated by the-star-wars-films (including the-animated-the-clone-wars) totaling over $10.1 billion, making it the second highest-grossing film series as of 2019.the-film also spawned the-star-wars-holiday-special, which debuted on cbs on november 17, 1978 and is often considered a failure; lucas himself disowned it.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was broadcast on the-american-national-public-radio-network in 1981.
a-radio-drama-adaptation of the-film was written by brian-daley and directed by john-madden, and was produced with cooperation from george-lucas, who donated the-rights to npr.
the-radio-drama-narrative began with a-version of the-backstory to the-film which relates princess-leia's-acquisition of the-secret-death-star-plans.
star-wars and the-radio-version-ensuing-film-installments have been explicitly referenced and satirized across a-wide-range of media.
lucas permitted brooks to make a-spoof of the-film under "one-incredibly-big-restriction: no-action-figures.
the-people vs. lucas that details the-issues of filmmaking and fanaticism pertaining to the-film-franchise and the-2010-documentary-film-creator.
many-elements of the-film have also endured presence in popular-culture.
a-pun on the-latter-phrase has led to may 4 being regarded by many-fans of the-franchise as an-unofficial-star-wars-day.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after.
" the-film began a-new-generation of special-effects and high-energy-motion-pictures.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
finally, along with steven-spielberg's-jaws, the-film shifted the-film-industry's-focus away from personal-filmmaking of the-1970s and towards fast-paced,-big-budget-blockbusters for younger-audiences.
filmmakers who have said to have been influenced by star-wars include james-cameron, j.j.-abrams, damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, gareth-edwards, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, peter-jackson, joss-whedon, christopher-nolan, ridley-scott, john-singleton, and kevin-smith.
cameron used the-concept for cameron production of the-lord of the-rings-trilogy to add a-sense of realism and believability.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film, inception.
another-critic, peter-biskind, later complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and spielberg returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
" in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth."
in an-article intended for the-cover of the-issue, time's-gerald-clarke wrote that star-wars is "a-grand-and-glorious-film that may well be the smash hit of 1977, and certainly is the-best-movie of the-year so far.
star-wars was voted the second most popular film by americans in a-2008-nationwide-poll conducted by the-market-research-firm, harris-interactive.
star-wars has also been featured in several-high-profile-audience-polls: in 1997, star-wars ranked as the-10th-greatest-american-film on the-los-angeles-daily-news-readers'-poll; in 2002, the-film and star-wars sequel the empire strikes back were voted as the-greatest-films ever made in channel-4's-100-greatest-films-poll; in 2011, the empire strikes back ranked as best-sci-fi-film on best in film: the-greatest-movies of our-time, a-primetime-special aired by abc that counted down the-best-films as chosen by fans, based on results of a-poll conducted by abc and people magazine; in 2014 the-10th-greatest-american-film on the-los-angeles-daily-news-readers'-poll placed 11th in a-poll undertaken by the-hollywood-reporter, which balloted every-studio, agency, publicity-firm, and production-house in the-hollywood-region.
reputable-publications also have included star-wars in reputable-publications
best-films lists: in 2008, empire-magazine ranked star-wars at no.
22 on its-list of the-"500-greatest-movies of all-time"; in 2010, the-film ranked among the-"all-time-100"-list of the-greatest-films as chosen by time-magazine-film-critic richard-schickel; the-film was also placed on a-similar-list created by the-new-york-times, "the-new-york-times guide to the-best-1,000-movies
ever made"; in 2012, the-film was included in sight-&-sound's-prestigious-decennial-critics poll "critics'-top-250-films", ranking at 171st on the-list, and in reputable-publications also have included star-wars in their-best-films-lists: in 2008, empire-magazine ranked star-wars at no.
22 on its-list of the-"500-greatest-movies of all-time"; in 2010, the-film ranked among the-"all-time-100"-list of the-greatest-films as chosen by time-magazine-film-critic richard-schickel; the-film was also placed on a-similar-list created by the-new-york-times, "the-new-york-times guide to the-best-1,000-movies-directors-poll at 224th.
although lucas declined to provide the-library with a-workable-copy of the-original-film upon request (instead offering the-special-edition), a-viewable-scan was made of the-original-copyright-deposit-print.
in addition to the-original-film's-multiple-awards and nominations, star-wars has also been recognized by the-american-film-institute on several of the-american-film-institute lists.
television-commercials told children and parents that vouchers within a-"star-wars-early-bird-certificate-package" could be redeemed for four-action-figures between february and june 1978.
the-novelization of the-film was published as star-wars: from the-adventures of luke-skywalker in december 1976, six months before the-film was released.
marketing-director-charles-lippincott secured the-deal with del-rey-books to publish the-novelization in november 1976.
by february 1977, a-half-million-copies had been sold.
foster also wrote the-sequel-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978) to be adapted as a-low-budget-film if star-wars was not a-financial-success.
marvel-comics also adapted the-sequel-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978) to be adapted as a-low-budget-film if star-wars was not a-financial-success as the-first-six-issues of marvel-comics licensed star-wars comic book, with the-first-issue sold in april 1977.
the-story of star-wars was a-1977-record-album presenting an-abridged-version of the-events depicted in star-wars, using dialogue and sound-effects from the-original-film.
the-recording was produced by george-lucas and alan-livingston, and was narrated by roscoe-lee-browne.
; anniversary edition, isbn 978-3836581172 george-lucas (alan-dean-foster), donald-f.-glut & james-kahn (2017): star wars:
a-book of star-wars facts and production-timeline.
a-new-hope (1977) at filmsite.org
star-wars at imdb star-wars at the tcm movie database star-wars:
a-new-hope on wookieepedia, a-star-wars-wiki
portrayed by mark-hamill, luke first appeared in star-wars (1977), and luke returned in the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983).
the-last-jedi (2017), and the-rise of skywalker (2019) reprised the-role in the-mandalorian-episode "chapter 16:
the-rescue" (2020), voicing the-character that was portrayed by a-body double with digital-de-aging.
the-character also briefly appears in the-prequel-film episode-iii – revenge of the-sith as an-infant.
a-new-hope (1977) ====
in a-deleted-scene preceding the-character's-first-appearance in the-film (preserved in the-film's radio dramatization), luke says goodbye to luke best friend biggs-darklighter, who has just joined the-imperial-academy.
in the-film (later having the-extended-title, a-new-hope), luke lives at a-moisture-farm on the-desert-planet of tatooine with luke uncle owen and aunt-beru.
luke appears in the-season-2-finale of the-mandalorian after making contact with grogu through the-force in "chapter 14:
set between a-new-hope and
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
the-novel was written by matthew-stover and released in december 2008.
when dark-horse acquired the-license two years later, dark-horse appeared in numerous-projects based on the-franchise as well.
luke appears in the-game
in an-interview about his-early-drafts, lucas said:
starkiller" was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson.
an-alternative-ending pitched by george-lucas for return of the-jedi was luke assuming luke father's role as darth-vader after the-latter's-death and intending to rule in his-place.
though lawrence-kasdan favored the-idea, george-lucas ultimately declined, since the-films were made for children.
another-conclusion to the-film featured the-character disappearing into the-wilderness akin to "clint-eastwood in the-spaghetti-westerns. "
according to mark-hamill , during the-filming of the-original-star-wars-film, george-lucas asked george-lucas if george-lucas would reprise the-role for a-cameo when george-lucas was in george-lucas 60s to pass the-torch to the-next-generation.
in 1983, hamill stated that hamill return to the-franchise would be "either be another-plane of existence or not-the-same-character".
hamill learned of the-sequel-trilogy over the-summer of 2012 at a-star-wars-celebration during lunch when lucas told lucas one was in development.
abrams said abrams allowed abrams to remain involved and that abrams reading helped make a-"better-experience for everyone".
schedeen also listed the-character as one of the-star-wars-characters they wanted to see in soulcalibur.
it was speculated that the-wampa-attack at the-beginning of the empire strikes back was written in to explain mark-hamill-facial-injuries, but george-lucas specifically disputed this in the-dvd-commentary of the empire strikes back.
in regards to luke's-portrayal in the-jedi, many-fans expressed disappointment in how mark-hamill was depicted "as a-grumpy-old-man whose-failures had driven mark-hamill into hiding" and the-actions the-character takes in contributing to kylo-ren's-backstory, a-stark-departure in how luke was characterized in the-original-trilogy.
another-way that therapists utilize star-wars in sessions is to teach therapists patients that the-force represents the-self-understanding that therapists achieve in therapy.
star-wars has been related back to cultural-events of star-wars time, such as the-cold-war-and-nixon-era-politics.
retrieved october 6, 2019.
shakespeare identifies the-character of puck in shakespeare
reception to the-character and ridley's-performance has been highly positive.
the-character was known as kira in the-early-stages of production, and arndt described kira as a "loner, hothead, gear-head, badass".
arndt said that arndt struggled with introducing the-young-woman as the-main-character in arndt story while keeping kira from being overshadowed after kira early meeting with luke-skywalker, whose-role in the-film was eventually minimized.
ridley recalled that-director and writer-j.-j.-abrams originally intended to name the-character "keera" [sic], but during filming in abu-dhabi, writer-j.-j.-abrams revealed to ridley that ridley was thinking of going with "rey".
daisy-ridley was largely unknown before being cast for the-role of rey.
daisy-ridley said that daisy-ridley auditioned many times for the-role over the-course of seven-months and had to keep daisy-ridley casting a-secret for three-months.
she was announced as part of the-cast at the-end of april 2014.
she inexperience and lack of exposure were a-crucial-part of what convinced abrams to give ridley the-role, as the-previous-installments had featured relatively-unknown-talent that would not experience heightened-degrees of scrutiny.
abrams stated that ridley "was so funny and had a-great-spark", as well as having she act out an-emotional-scene, proclaiming that "she nailed it on the-first-take."
abrams went on to praise ridley, saying, "ridley was born with this-gift to be in a-moment and make this-gift ridley own.
kennedy proclaimed, "daisy had a-physicality and a-self-confidence that was so important to the-character we were looking for.
ridley recalled ridley shooting experience as starting off bumpy, with abrams telling ridley that ridley first few takes were "wooden".
but ridley and abrams had an-"incredibly-collaborative"-process creating rey; ridley recalled that the-character "changed from when ridley and abrams first began, ridley became softer.
ridley has said that rey will have "some-impact in a-girl-power-y-way", adding that the-character "doesn't have to be one-thing to embody a-woman in a-film.
john-williams said john-williams immediately loved ridley in the-film and found composing ridley theme an-interesting-challenge.
abrams said, "i will say that it seems preposterous and wrong that the-main-character of the-movie is not well represented in what is clearly a-huge-piece of the-star-wars-world in terms of merchandising."
an-upcoming-issue of the-comic-book-series star-wars-adventures will feature a-story set after the-events of the-film featuring rey, finn, and poe continuing to fight the-first-order.
in the-episode, set 16 years before rey-birth and 35 years before the-force awakens, the-young-padawan ezra-bridger briefly hears some of rey-lines from the-film (specifically rey speaking to the-unconscious-finn at the-end) in the-world between worlds, a-dimension that exists outside of time and space.
the-character was also introduced as a-player-"skin" in the-game
the-character and ridley's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim.
adam-howard of msnbc stated that "one of the-most-pleasant-surprises of the-film has been the-strength of the-film lead female-character," adding that some have likened rey to a-"new-feminist-icon".
rey has also been compared to the-titular-character from the-hayao-miyazaki-anime-film-nausicaä of the-valley of the-wind (1984).richard-roeper described ridley's-portrayal of rey as "a-breakout-performance", continuing by calling the-character "tough and resourceful and smart and brave".
the-first-reel-women in technology-award for a-fictional-character was awarded to the-character rey.
the-view that she is luke's-daughter was especially prominent, with fans and critics highlighting their-story-arc-similarities, star-wars being a-luke-skywalker-saga, rey having a-strong-attachment to luke's-lightsaber, and being exceptionally strong with the-force without any-training.
abrams stated that abrams intentionally withheld rey's-last-name and background in the force awakens.
abrams said that abrams felt that the-origin of kylo-ren was the-only-thing that could be revealed in kylo-ren film and that kylo-ren knew "quite a bit" about rey's-origin but would give courtesy to the-last-jedi-director-rian-johnson by not saying any more.
before the-release of the-rise of skywalker, abrams said that "there's more to the-story than you've seen," though, according to ridley, the-facts presented in the-last-jedi would not change.
inverse similarly argues that the-end of the-film sees rey reject "any-power rey grandfather held over rey" and "bury the-past", in a-completion of the-hero's-journey.
j.j.-abrams then pitched the-idea of emperor-palpatine being rey's-grandfather to ridley at the-start of production on episode-ix, although this-aspect of ridley character "kept changing" over the-course of filming.
james-hunt of screen-rant argues that the-idea of an-obi-wan-connection "would've been an-equally-bad-decision," because it would still mean the-character "is powerful because of her-lineage, rather than rey simply being powerful because the-force chose her.
retrieved december 29, 2015.
retrieved december 19, 2015.
anthony-daniels has portrayed the-character in ten of eleven of the-star-wars-films released to date, with the-exception of solo:
a-star-wars-story, where the-character does not appear.
star-wars (1977) =====
in star-wars, c-3po is introduced to the-audience when star-wars (1977) ===== and r2-d2 are aboard the-consular-ship tantive-iv when the-consular-ship tantive-iv is attacked by the-imperial-star-destroyer devastator.
throughout the-film c-3po is a-foil to r2-d2's-antics, even when c-3po translates r2-d2's-machine-speech for the-audience.
having c-3po on chewbacca's-back proves to be beneficial, in that when boba-fett (jeremy-bulloch) escapes the-city with a-frozen-han, c-3po notifies (billy-dee-williams),
at the-end of the-film, at the-end of the-film is a-witness to padmé-and-anakin's-marriage on naboo.
anthony-daniels reprised the-role of c-3po in the force awakens, the-first-installment of the-sequel-trilogy.
in the-last-jedi, c-3po mostly serves as an-assistant for leia and, while leia is unconscious, resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac); resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) spends much of the-film voicing resistance-pilot-poe-dameron (oscar-isaac) concern over the-protagonist's-chances in missions such as the-evacuation of d'qar at the-start of the-film and finn and rose-tico's-(kelly-marie-tran)-mission on the-supremacy later on.
in part of the-film, the-character appears with red-eyes.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
george-lucas originally envisioned the-character as "more of mel-blanc with an-american-accent, but changed george-lucas mind after daniels-voice-performance outshone that of 30-other-actors that tested for the-role.
mel-blanc was considered for the-role, but according to daniels, mel-blanc told george-lucas that daniels was better for the-part.
daniels also played c-3po in the-live-action-segments of star-wars-holiday-special (1978), and voiced the-character in the-animated-portion.
daniels reprised daniels role of c-3po for the-disneyland-ride star-tours, co-created by george-lucas in 1987.
along with r2-d2, along with r2-d2 also has a-role as the-character on sesame-street episodes 1364 and 1396.
they also hosted several-documentaries including the-making of star-wars and star-wars: connections.
retrieved 4 february 2011.
the-next-generation is an-american-science-fiction-television-series which aired in syndication from september 1987 through may 1994.
season 1 (1987–1988) ===
season 2 (1988–1989) === ===
season 3 (1989–1990) === ===
season 4 (1990–1991) === ===
season 5 (1991–1992) === ===
season 6 (1992–1993) ===
season 7 (1993–1994) === ==
three-episodes were released on region-free-blu-ray-disc in january 2012.
seasons 3 and 4 were released on the-us-and-canadian-itunes-stores in the-second-half of 2013, and on the-uk-store in march 2014 - again in both-high-and-standard-definition.
both-high-and-standard-definition-versions of season 5 were released digitally in the-us via amazon-video and itunes in early-may 2014, and later in the uk, canadian and australian itunes stores.
in december 2014, season 6 was added in both-high-and-standard-definition to the-us-itunes-store.
the-sixth-episode of the-fifth-season of the-american-animated-television-series star-wars: the-clone-wars aired in the-united-states on november 3, 2012.
production ==
bryan-young wrote that bryan-young favorite aspect of the-episode was the-episode exploration of jedi-mythology and compared the-youngling's-rite of passage to the-test luke-skywalker was given inside the-pit on dagobah in the-film the-empire strikes back.
abrams requested that ren's-mask be designed to be memorable to a-child.
as late as march 2014, the-film's-main-antagonist was only known to the-production-team as "jedi-killer", and had gone through numerous-unapproved-design-attempts.
according to abrams, "glyn-dillon's-design for the-character's-costume was meant to be a-nod to the-vader-mask," and concept-designer-doug-chiang says that the-character "takes on [the]-persona of [vader] to haunt luke."
driver's-casting in the-film in an-unnamed-role was first announced on april 29, 2014.
the-force awakens teaser-trailer released by lucasfilm on november 28, 2014, wielding a-jagged-red-lightsaber with a-crossguard.
the-name kylo-ren, as well as the-character's-design, was revealed by entertainment-weekly in a-lucasfilm-designed-topps-style-trading-card-mock-up on december 11, 2014.
driver explained that driver goal was "to forget you're in star-wars and treat his-goal like any-other-job that's filled with moments and problems," because from the-perspective of the-characters living within the-film's-universe, "darth-vader is real."
abrams told empire in august 2015, "kylo-ren is not a-sith.
abrams had previously told entertainment-weekly that the-character, "came to the-name kylo-ren when the-character joined a-group called the knights of ren."
abrams noted, "the-lightsaber is something that abrams built abrams, and is as dangerous and as fierce and as ragged as the-character."
the-telegraph also explains that ren's-wild-and-erratic-temper and "angsty"-instability make abrams dangerous.
abrams explained, "i think that what makes ren so unique is that abrams isn't as fully formed as when we meet a-character such as darth-vader ...
abrams is not your-prototypical-mustache-twirling-bad-guy.
abrams is a little bit more complex than that."
driver said in december 2015 that, despite the-visual-similarities to darth-vader, ren is "unlike any-villain the-franchise has seen".
the-backstory of how ben-solo became kylo-ren was elaborated upon in a-prequel-graphic-novel titled the-rise of kylo-ren (written by charles-soule and illustrated by will-sliney), which was published and released by marvel-comics from december 18, 2019 to march 11, 2020.certain-aspects of kylo-ren's overall arc across the-three-films of the-sequel-trilogy were also known to driver from the-start of production on the-first-film.
when asked by ign in december 2017 if he believed kylo-ren was capable of redemption, the-last-jedi-writer/director-rian-johnson replied, “yeah...
yet there is this-inherent-optimism in star-wars that the-light in you is never truly gone.
abrams further elaborated on this-point:
in january 2016, driver reprised the-role for a-star-wars/undercover-boss-sketch on saturday-night-live, with kylo-ren disguising kylo-ren as a-radar-technician named "matt" to determine what the-starkiller-base-employees really think of kylo-ren.
driver again reprised the-role in january 2020 for a-follow-up-saturday-night-live-sketch titled “undercover boss:
rise of the-resistance, with the latter featuring the-character in audio-animatronic-form with driver providing the-voice.
on november 28, 2019, ichikawa-ebizō-xi starred as kairennosuke in star-wars-kabuki: kairennosuke and the-three-shining-swords (スター・ウォーズ歌舞伎〜煉之介光刃三本〜,-sutā-uōzu-kabuki ~rennosuke
the-character and driver's-portrayal have received critical-acclaim; driver won the-2016-saturn-award for best-supporting-actor for the-character and driver's-portrayal portrayal.
in january 2018, kylo was voted seventh greatest movie villain of all-time by the-readers of empire.
many-reviewers commended ren's-conflicted-nature and depth, as well as ren-costume-design, and noted there were many-places the-character could be taken in future-installments.
peter-bradshaw of the-guardian praised the-character and the-actor alike, saying, "peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is gorgeously cruel, spiteful and capricious – and unlike the-vader of old, peter-bradshaw of the-guardian is given to petulant-temper-tantrums, with peter-bradshaw of the-guardian lightsaber drawn."
comparing the-character to the-one-note-vader of the-1977-film, melissa-leon calls ren "a living battleground between darkness and light, making ren a far more resonant and familiar portrayal of that-struggle than we've ever seen in star-wars ...
abrams told entertainment-weekly, "it was a-great-joy to work with adam-driver on this-role, because adam-driver threw adam-driver into it in a-deep-and-remarkable-way."
all-the-visual-cues that leave the-character open to criticisms of not being "evil" enough—are all signs of ren's-struggle between the-dark-side and the-light.
in july 2020 as a-spin-off from the-clone-wars, with filoni, corbett, and rau attached.
production == ===
by september 2016, star-wars: the clone wars and star-wars rebels supervising director dave filoni had stepped back from that-position on the-latter-series so he could focus more on the-series'-writing as well as the-development of future-animated-series for lucasfilm.
in july 2018, filoni announced that a-final-season of the-clone-wars would be released on the-streaming-service disney+
disney+ officially ordered a-new-series from lucasfilm-animation in july 2020 titled star wars:
the-first-trailer for the-series was released in december 2020, and confirmed that dee-bradley-baker would return from the-clone-wars as the-voice of all-the-clone-troopers in the-series, including the-members of the-bad-batch and captain-rex.
it also revealed that a younger version of the-character fennec-shand from the-series
the-mandalorian would be appearing in the-series, and actress-ming-na-wen soon confirmed that actress-ming-na-wen would reprise actress-ming-na-wen role as fennec from the-mandalorian.
kevin-kiner was confirmed to be scoring the-series in january 2021, after previously scoring the-clone-wars and rebels.
lucasfilm-president-kathleen-kennedy promoted the-series at disney's-investor-day-event on december 10, 2020, revealing the-first-trailer for the-series.
the-word sith was first used in the-1974-rough-draft of star-wars with the-first-published-use being the-1976-novelization of star-wars as a-title for the-key-villain darth-vader, the-"dark-lord of the sith".
george-lucas acknowledged that the jedi, sith, and other-force-concepts have been inspired by many-sources.
most prominently, the-conflict between the-sith and jedi employs the-classic-trope of black-and-white-moral-dualism—an-elemental-contrast between evil-(the-"darkness") and good-(the-"light") first postulated and elaborated in zoroastrianism, from which the-core-mythos of star-wars is much influenced.
however, whereas the-classic-greek-concept did not necessarily view the-apollonian-and-dyonisian-principles as opposed, star-wars frames the-jedi and sith as opponents in a-dire-moral-struggle, with the sith cast as corrupted-villains apparently destined to defeat or self-destruction in the-end.
originally, george-lucas conceived the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel had served adolf-hitler.
back, george-lucas condensed this into one-character in the-form of darth-vader.
the-star-wars-saga began with the-film star wars episode iv: a-new-hope, which was released in 1977.
the-sith were first mentioned in a-new-hope in a-scene ultimately cut from the-film.
shoulde lived at an-unknown-point in time before star-wars
the-2019-film star-wars
they are located on the-sith-planet-exegol, which is described in the-film as the-"hidden-world of the-sith".
the-film as the-"hidden-world of the-sith" depicts the-sith loyalists as having built the-final-order, a-massive-fleet of xyston-class-star-destroyers, at the-behest of emperor-palpatine (darth-sidious).
following the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, lucasfilm rebranded most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels, comics, and other-fictional-media published since the-original-1977-film (previously identified as the-star-wars expanded-universe) as star-wars-legends and declared them non-canonical to the-franchise in april
a-new-hope and episode-v:
a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas began with a-theatrical-feature-film which was released on august 15, 2008, and debuted on cartoon-network two months later on october 3, 2008.
a-computer-animated-television-series created by george-lucas is set in the-fictional-star-wars-galaxy during the-three-years between the-prequel-films
thirteen-episodes composing a-new-sixth-season were made available in the-u.s. for streaming on netflix, along with the-entirety of the-series, beginning march 7, 2014.
on february 21, 2020.a-sequel-series, star-wars-rebels, was released during the-hiatus between the-sixth-and-seventh-seasons of the-clone-wars, featuring several-characters from the-clone-wars, including captain-rex, ahsoka-tano and maul.
star-wars is set during the-prequel-trilogy-era, in the-period of three-years between attack of the-clones and revenge of the-sith.
star-wars focuses on the-eponymous-conflict between the-galactic-republic, which is supported by the-jedi-order, and the-confederacy of independent-systems, a-movement organized by the-sith-lord-count-dooku to unite numerous-planetary-systems seeking independence from the-republic against star-wars.
season one focuses on various-battles fought between the-republic and the-separatists, and their-efforts to convince more-planets and races to join their.
season two features both-one-episode-storylines, and a-few-arcs that span between two-and-five-episodes.
season focuses heavily on bounty-hunter-characters, with one-story-arc featuring darth-sidious hiring cad-bane to steal a-holocron from the-jedi-temple on coruscant that will help hunter locate force-sensitive-children, while another-deals with boba-fett beginning boba-fett bounty hunter career and, alongside a-group of more-experienced-mercenaries, seeking revenge against mace-windu for killing mace-windu father.
the-first-half of both-season three and four are diplomatic in nature, and focus on the-role of the-republic-senate in the-clone-wars, and how different-races and planets are affected by the-galaxy-wide-conflict, as well as the-republic's-efforts to help the-first-half of both-season three and four.
during season three, several-story-arcs focus on the-development of certain-characters, such as anakin, who is led to an-ancient-force-realm alongside obi-wan and ahsoka, and learns more about the-nature of the-force and his-role as the chosen one; ahsoka, who defies anakin's orders to join his-team in a-mission to break a-jedi-master out of a-separatist-prison, and must later lead her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans when her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans find her-own-team of captured-jedi-padawans hunted by trandoshans; and ventress, who is betrayed by dooku, returns to her-nightsister-clan on dathomir, and tries to exact revenge on her through a-jedi-master new apprentice, savage-opress, who ultimately turns on both ventress and dooku to follow his-own-path.
in season four, one-story-arc focuses on the-501st-legion, who must act independently for the-first-time when the-jedi-general they have been temporarily assigned to serve under is revealed to be a-traitor, and manipulates they into killing each other, forcing the-clones to capture and execute the-jedi-general.
season five features five-main-story-arcs.
season six consists of four-story-arcs:
on december 5, 2011, a full-length feature cut of one of the-season-3-trilogies of episodes (the-one composed by "nightsisters,"-"monster," and "witches of the-mist") was released for download on itunes as an-uninterrupted-movie that was previously shown at selected-screenings in 2010.
a-repeat of season one aired in "decoded"-episode-format.
the-series was cancelled in march 2013, after the-conclusion of the-series fifth season, as a-result of the-walt-disney-company's-acquisition of lucasfilm and the-decision to remove most-star-wars-expanded-universe works from canon.
despite this, the-clone-wars was one of the-few-pieces of star-wars-media to remain part of the-new-continuity established by disney, and a-sixth-season was released on march 7, 2014 on netflix, along with additional-media, such as comic-books and novels, based on unfinished-story-arcs that would have been included in the-season.
on july 19, 2018, lucasfilm announced at san-diego-comic-con that the-clone-wars would return with 12-new-episodes in a-seventh-season to be released on disney+.
a-trailer for the-season was released on april 14, 2019 at star-wars-celebration-chicago.
on march 17, 2014, in recognition of the-release of the-complete-series on netflix, starwars.com released the-official-chronological-episode-order for the-first-six-seasons; this was later updated to include links to the-episodes on disney+.
production ==
at april 2005's star-wars-celebration-iii, george-lucas stated that "we are working on a-3-d-continuation of the-pilot-series that was on the-cartoon-network; we probably won't start that-project for another-year.
" lucas hired dave-filoni after having seen episodes of avatar:
by july 2005, pre-production had begun on the-series, according to steve-sansweet, head of lucasfilm-fan-relations.
sansweet has said that "a-large-component of the-future of star-wars and lucasfilm is cgi-animation."
speaking at paleyfest on march 3, 2007, lucas revealed that the-series would be episodic, and as such would not focus on anakin-skywalker's-story; with episodes dedicated to clone troopers and other-characters.
lucas revealed further-information in a-fan-interview, including a-new-character named ahsoka tano, over 100-episodes and a-possible-appearance by boba-fett.
in an-interview in the-september-24,-2007-issue of tv-guide, lucas confirmed that 39-episodes of the-series had been completed.
on april 8, 2007, ain't it cool-news reported that musician-eric-rigler had recorded music for the-series.
snyder flew out to san-francisco, california to screen several-episodes, and told lucas the-only-place snyder wanted to see the-show was on cartoon-network.
"the-"young-padawans"-arc from season 5 was intended to be aired separately from the-clone-wars as a-feature-length-pilot for a-spin-off-series that never materialized.
seasons 6, 7, and 8, were in some-form of production at the-time of the-show's-cancellation in march 2013, shortly after lucasfilm was purchased by disney.
the-clone-wars premiered on october 3, 2008 at 9-p.m. on cartoon-network.
the-clone-wars began airing on their-adult-swim-block on march 14, 2009, making the-series the first cartoon network series to simultaneously air on both-cartoon-network and adult-swim.
the-series also aired from january 15 to march 26, 2009 on tnt, making the-show the first form of animation to air on that-channel in over-a-decade.
the-show has been taken off the-air in off-network syndication since fall 2013 due to low-costs and was not renewed for season 2 in the 2013-2014 tv season due to disney's-completed-acquisitions of lucasfilm-ltd in december 2012.
on march 11, 2013, it was announced that the-clone-wars would be "winding down" to focus on the-star-wars sequel trilogy and a new series, star-wars-rebels.
on february 13, 2014, netflix announced that starting on march 7, 2014 netflix would begin the-us-distribution of the-entire-tv-series, including some-previously-unreleased-director's-cuts, and the-previously-unaired-new-season dubbed "the lost missions".
one of the-most-well-known-edits was the-removal of the-character ventress kissing a-clone after the-character had stabbed him with the-character lightsaber.
the-show was removed from netflix on april 7, 2019.
the-first-episode for season 7 was released on february 21, 2020, with the-final-episode being released on may 4 of the-same-year.
the-site's-critics-consensus reads, "sophisticated-storytelling-and-quality-animation make the-sixth-season of star-wars
on july 11, 2008, television-critics were shown a-completed-episode of the-series.
star-wars became the-most-watched-series-premiere in cartoon-network-history.
on july 23, 2010, at the-san-diego-comic-con, craig-glenday, editor of the-guinness-world-records, presented star-wars: the-clone-wars-supervising-director-dave-filoni, cg-supervisor-joel-aron, and lead-designer-kilian-plunkett a-certificate proclaiming the-cartoon-series "the-highest-rated-sci-fi-animation currently on television".
at the-time of cancellation in march 2013, 65-more-episodes were in development.
thirteen-of-65-more-episodes were finished to become part of season 6: the-lost-missions, but there were still additional-arcs that were never released.
in september 2014, starwars.com released details of three-story-arcs from 65-more-episodes.
an-eight-episode-arc with nightsister-asajj-ventress and jedi-quinlan-vos was adapted into dark-disciple, a-novel by christie-golden released on july 7, 2015.
in september 2014, four-unfinished-episodes were released on the-official-star-wars-website.
the-unfinished-animatics for the-bad-batch, a-four-episode-arc, were screened at the-star-wars-celebration-convention in anaheim, california on april 17, 2015.
the-arc was subsequently released on starwars.com for free shortly after on april 29, 2015.
on july 13, 2020, a-spin-off-sequel-series titled star wars: the-bad-batch was announced; the-bad-batch will follow the-titular-group of clones working as mercenaries in the-immediate-aftermath of the-clone-war.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – lightsaber-duels, a-fighting-game released on november 11, 2008 for wii.
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes, another-action-adventure-game taking place between season 1 and season 2, released on october 9, 2009 for microsoft-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii, playstation portable, playstation 2 and nintendo ds.
clone-wars-adventures, an-online-pc-game launched on september 15, 2010 online by sony-online-entertainment and shut down on march 31, 2014.
the-clone-wars – republic-heroes, another-action-adventure-game taking place between season 1 and season 2, released on october 9, 2009 for microsoft-windows, xbox 360, playstation 3, wii, playstation portable, playstation 2 and nintendo dsplaystation 3.
disney-infinity 3.0, released in september 2015 by disney-interactive for playstation 4, playstation 3, xbox-one, xbox 360, wii-u, microsoft-windows, ios and android, which stylizes select-major-characters from the-show as action-figures that become playable only via a toys-to-life nfc system.
each-copy of the-game comes with the-playset, "twilight of the-republic", which is an-alternate-storyline set during the-clone-wars-era, along with two-starting-characters, anakin and ahsoka.
aside from the-television-series, the-character appears in several-other-forms of star-wars-media, both canon and non-canon, including books, comics, and video-games.
before the-character of count-dooku was developed, the-art-department for star-wars:
lucasarts's-leland-chee suggested using "asajj" as the-character's-first-name, naming lucasarts's-leland-chee after the-character asaji from akira-kurosawa's-throne of blood.
in season one, ventress travels to the-moon of rugosa as dooku's-emissary to form an-alliance between the-planet-toydaria and the-separatists.
in season three, ventress-back-story is explained: her hails from the-planet-dathomir and was sold by the-nightsisters to criminals.
in season four, ventress returns to the-nightsisters of dathomir.
in season five's-final-arc, ventress nearly apprehends ahsoka, who has been framed for attempting to destroy the-jedi-temple.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
ventress appears in the-game
the-character is featured in several-star-wars-games that were released after disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm: ventress appears in the-tower-defense-game
in 1984 and 1985, two-live-action-films featuring the-ewoks were televised in the-united-states and released theatrically in europe.
the-first-film released, star-wars (1977), is the-fourth-film chronologically and was later subtitled episode-iv – a-new-hope.
as lucas was outlining a-trilogy of trilogies, lucas also imagined making additional-movies unrelated to the-skywalker-saga.
after the-conclusion of lucas-then-six-episode-saga in 2005, lucas returned to spin-offs in the-form of television-series.
star-wars was compiled from episodes "almost [as] an-afterthought.
the-character was originally criticized by fans, but by the-end of the-series
the-character had become a fan favorite.
the-film and series exist in the-same-level of canon as the-episodic-and-anthology-films.
|}before selling lucasfilm to disney in 2012, and parallel to his-development of a-sequel-trilogy, george-lucas and original-trilogy-co-screenwriter-lawrence-kasdan started development on a-standalone-film about a-young-han-solo.
in february 2013, disney-ceo-bob-iger made public the-development of a original trilogy co-screenwriter lawrence-kasdan film and entertainment-weekly reported that disney would focus on a-young-han-solo.
rogue one is set directly before episode iv: a-new-hope and focuses on the-eponymous-group of rebels who obtain the-plans to the-death-star.
in may 2014, lucasfilm announced gareth-edwards as the-director of an-anthology-film, with gary-whitta writing the-first-draft for a-release on december 16, 2016.
the-film was the first to feature characters introduced in animated-star-wars-tv-series, namely-the-clone-wars'-saw-gerrera, portrayed by forest-whitaker in the-film.
the-film received generally-positive-reviews, with the-film performances, action-sequences, soundtrack, visual-effects and darker-tone being praised.
the-film grossed over us$500 million worldwide within a-week of the-film release.
before selling lucasfilm to disney, george-lucas had hired star-wars-original-trilogy-veteran-lawrence-kasdan to write a-film about a-young-han-solo.
a-film about a-young-han-solo-stars-alden-ehrenreich as a-young-han-solo, joonas-suotamo as chewbacca (after serving as a-double for the-character in the force awakens and the-last-jedi), donald-glover as lando-calrissian, emilia-clarke as qi'ra, and woody-harrelson as beckett.
during disney-investor-day 2020, rogue-squadron (2023) ==== was announced that patty-jenkins would direct a-film titled rogue-squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023.
a-film titled rogue squadron, set to be released on december 22, 2023 will be the-first-film in the-franchise directed by a-woman, and according to starwars.com, "will introduce a-new-generation of starfighter-pilots as they earn they wings and risk
according to jenkins, the-film will be "something original with great-influence from the-games and the-books.
though the-project is still active as of february 2021, no-release-date has been set due to johnson's-involvement with other-projects.
on february 21, 2020, variety reported that a-star-wars-film from sleight-director-j.-d.-dillard and luke-cage-writer-matt-owens was in the-early-stages of development.
although based on story-ideas from lucas, both-films do not bear star-wars in both-films titles, and were considered to exist in a-lower-level of canon than both-films.
in a-story by lucas and a-screenplay by bob-carrau, the-towani-family-spaceship-shipwrecks on the-forest-moon of endor.
among other-stylistic-choices making the-film unique from the-star-wars-episodes is the-inclusion of a-narrator.
in december 2020, a-droid-story, an-animated-adventure-film for disney+ was announced.
received special-achievement-awards for the-empire strikes back and return of the-jedi-visual-effects, and star-wars received a-special-achievement-award for star-wars alien, creature and robot voices.
by 2015, star-wars had been transferred to a-2k-scan which can be viewed by appointment.
the-film additionally received two-nominations for outstanding-children's-program and outstanding sound mixing for a-miniseries or a-special.
at d23-expo in august 2019, it was announced that a-streaming-series about the-character would be produced instead.
game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss were to write and produce a-trilogy of star-wars-films scheduled to be released in december 2022, 2024, and 2026, which were first announced to be in development in february 2018.
however, citing game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss commitment to a-netflix-deal, game of thrones-creators david benioff and d.-b.-weiss stepped away from the-project in october 2019.
in january 2020, a-film set in the-era of the-high-republic was rumored to be in development.
star-wars episodes
book: star-wars
list of star-wars cast members list of star-wars characters ===
the-animated-series (tas), originally airing as star-trek and as the-animated-adventures of gene-roddenberry's star-trek, is an-american-animated-science-fiction-television-series created by gene-roddenberry.
it originally aired from september 8, 1973, to october 12, 1974, on nbc, spanning 22-episodes over two-seasons.
after the-cancellation of the-original-series in 1969, the-live-action-show proved popular in syndication and generated significant-fan-enthusiasm.
the-undiscovered-country, released in december 1991.
the-animated-series was critically acclaimed and was the-first-star-trek-series to win an-emmy-award when the-animated-series second season won the-1975-emmy for outstanding-entertainment – children's-series.
lou-scheimer of filmation was in talks with star-trek-producer-paramount-television, tv-network-nbc, and creator-gene-roddenberry to create an-animated-spin-off-series while the-original-series was still on the-air, during its-third-season (1968–69).
the-original-series would train the-teenage-crew of a-ship called excalibur about space-exploration; the-new-teenage-crew included a-vulcan named steve, an-african-american-boy named bob, and a-chinese-boy named stick.
production ==
the-major-exception was the-character of pavel-chekov (walter-koenig), who did not appear in the-animated-series because the-animated-series budget could not afford the-complete-cast.
writing on facebook's-starlog-magazine-official-page in march 2021, gerrold revealed that the-reason for this was a-longstanding-feud between courage and roddenberry over residual-payments for airings of star-trek:
season 1 (1973–74) === ===
season 2 (1974) ===
the-director of the-first-season (16-episodes) was hal-sutherland and bill-reed directed the-six-episodes of season two, though the-first-four-episodes of season two erroneously credit hal-sutherland.
the-original-series is the-vulcan-city of shikahr, depicted in a-background-scene wherein kirk, spock and mccoy walk across a-natural-stone-bridge (first depicted in star-trek-iii:
this-feature was originally proposed for the-original-series but was never used.
i always felt that star-trek-animated was part of star-trek because gene-roddenberry accepted the-paycheck for it and put gene-roddenberry name on the-credits.
remember, we were making it up as we went along on the-original-series (and on the animated one, too).
the-2009-film star-trek also references "yesteryear", featuring a-nearly-identical-scene in which a-young-spock is confronted by several-other-vulcan-children, who bully and provoke a-young-spock for being part human.
the-animated-series was first released in the-united-states on eleven-volumes of vhs-tapes in 1989.
a-region-1-dvd-box-set of the-series was released on november 21, 2006, and has since been released internationally for other-regions.
a-blu-ray-release in hd was released as part of the-star-trek-50th-anniversary-tv and movie-collection in the-united-states on september 6, 2016.
a-stand-alone-blu-ray-release was released on november 15, 2016.
the-animated-series faced the-reverse-situation of the-original-series with regard to the-original-series popularity: ratings were high, but skewed away from the-young-children which saturday-morning-advertisers were trying to reach, being more popular with adults and older-children.
in 2019, cbr ranked all-31-seasons of star trek television shows, placing season 1 of tas at 23rd, and season 2 at 24th.
star-wars has been expanded to media other than the-original-films.
with the-exception of the-cgi-animated-the-clone-wars-tv-series, non-film-material produced prior to april 2014 was collectively known as the-star-wars-expanded-universe (eu).
most-works produced after april 25, 2014, are part of the-official-canon as defined by lucasfilm, although a-handful of star-wars-legends-media has been released after that-date.
lucas later commissioned alan-dean-foster, who ghostwrote the-novelization, to write a-sequel, which resulted in splinter of the-mind's-eye (1978).
lucas originally intended to use this as the-basis for a-potential-low-budget-sequel to star-wars, but when this became one of the-most-successful-films of all-time, lucas decided to write lucas own story for the-film-sequel,
while this was in production, lucas approved the-star-wars-holiday-special (1978), with which lucas had limited-involvement.
running from april 1977 to may 1986, the-star-wars-comic-book-series from marvel-comics met with such-strong-sales that former marvel editor-in-chief jim shooter credited it with saving marvel financially in 1977 and 1978.
some-fans feared that the-franchise had come to an-end, and the-period between 1987 and 1991 has been called the "dark times.
the-multimedia-project was largely meant to reinvigorate the-franchise ahead of the-prequel-trilogy, along with lucas's-1997-special-editions of the-original-trilogy.
lucas incorporated elements of the-expanded-universe into lucas's 1997 special editions of the-original-trilogy; for example, coruscant, the-new-republic-capital-planet created by zahn in the-thrawn-trilogy, made its-film-debut in the-special-edition of return of the-jedi, before being featured more heavily in the-prequel-trilogy.
before 1999, the-bulk of expanded-universe-storytelling explored the-time-periods either after return of the-jedi or long before a-new-hope (e.g.-the-tales of the-jedi series).
the-time-period shortly before the-original-trilogy (including the-rise of the-galactic-empire and the-personal-histories of anakin-skywalker and emperor-palpatine) was left open for lucas to develop in the-form of a-prequel-trilogy, which begin with episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999).
the-character aayla-secura, introduced in 2000 in the-republic-comic-book-series, appears in episode ii:
ahead of the-film's-release, lucas announced a-3d-"continuation" of clone-wars, which was released as the-animated-film the clone-wars (2008) and a-television-series of the-same-name (2008–2014).
at this-time, lucas denied any-plans to ever make a-star-wars sequel trilogy.
star-wars has become a-cultural-touchpoint, and our-fans are avidly interested in exploring more-stories."
in august 2005, lucas said of the-expanded-universe: i don't read that-stuff.
regarding the-holocron-database in 2012, holocron said: "what sets star-wars apart from other-franchises is that we develop a-singular-continuity across all-forms of media, whether it be the-films, tv series, video games, novels and comics, and holocron is a-key-component to lucasfilm being able to do this."
the-canonicity-level comprising the-clone-wars, which lucas co-created.
in october 2012, the-walt-disney-company acquired lucasfilm for us$4.06 billion (equivalent to about $4.52b in 2019).
on april 25, 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-expanded-universe-material as star-wars-legends and declared lucasfilm non-canonical to the-franchise.
lucasfilm explained that the-only-preexisting-works to be considered canonical within the-franchise would be the-primary-episodic-films and the-2008-the-clone-wars-film-and-tv-series.
the-first-new-canonical-novel was a-new-dawn by john-jackson-miller, published in september 2014, acting as a-prologue to the-cgi-animated-television-series star-wars-rebels, which was released a month later.
marvel began publishing new-star-wars-comic-book-series in january 2015, and the-journey to star-wars-publishing-initiative included books and comics tying in to the-sequel-trilogy-films.
the-first-sequel-trilogy-film, the force awakens, was released in december 2015.
since co-creating the-clone-wars, supervising-director-dave-filoni has followed lucas (who incorporated expanded-universe-elements into the-special-editions, prequels, and the-clone-wars) in incorporating multiple-spin-off-elements into timothy-zahn-series.
in february 2020, it was announced that a-new-line of books and comics, labeled the-high-republic, would begin publishing starting in august.
in december 2020, multiple-live-action-series were announced for disney+, including obi-wan-kenobi, andor, lando, three-mandalorian-spin-offs, and the-acolyte, set during the-high-republic.
on april 2, 2021, several-legacy-star-wars-films and series were added to disney+.multiple-marvel-comics rebooted in 2020, moving to the-era between the-empire-strikes
new-york-crown-publishers-isbn 0517420465 retrieved from opensource via archive.org 10 april 2018
retrieved from indiana-university-library via archive.org 12 october 2017
retrieved from university of california library via archive.org 12 october 2017
london: george-bell & sons, retrieved from project-gutenberg 15 october 2017
the-ghosts, giants, pookas, demons, leprechawns, banshees, fairies, witches, widows, old-maids, and other-marvels of the-emerald-isle-boston: houghton, mifflin, & company retrieved from united-states-library of congress via archive.org 20 november 2017
retrieved from public-library of india via archive.org 14 march 2018
oxford-university-press-isbn 978-0 -19-968982-8 retrieved 10 april 2018
6 december 2017 retrieved 10 april 2018 ===
retrieved from harvard-university-library via archive.org 21 november 2017 also republished as anonymous [c.j.t.] (1904).
retrieved via archive.org 21 november 2017
william-curry, jun, and company retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 11 november 2017
william-curry, jun, and company retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 11 november 2017
william-frederick-wakeman retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 11 november 2017
william-frederick-wakeman retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 11 november 2017
william-frederick-wakeman retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 11 november 2017
11 november 2017 colum, padraic (1916).
the-macmillan-company retrieved from new-york-public-library via archive.org 24 november 2017
john-murray, retrieved from oxford-university-library via archive.org 6 november 2017
2-london: john-murray, retrieved from oxford-university-library via archive.org 6 november 2017
3-london: john-murray, retrieved from oxford-university-library via archive.org 6 november 2017
sampson-low, marston, searle, & rivington retrieved from university of toronto library via archive.org 8 november 2017
little-brown-company retrieved from university of wisconsin library via archive.org 8 november 2017
isbn 9780330235044 retrieved 27 november 2017 .
1900).fairies and folk of ireland-new-york: charles-scribner's-sons, retrieved from new-york-public-library via archive.org 6 november 2017
co.-publishers retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 10 april 2018
london-maxwell and co.-publishers retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 10 april 2018
london-maxwell and co.-publishers retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 10 april 2018
vol.1-london-saunders and otley retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 10 april 2018
vol.2-london-saunders and otley retrieved from university of illinois library via archive.org 10 april 2018
london: t.-fisher-unwin retrieved from university of connecticut library via archive.org 9 november 2017
retrieved from wikisource 17 october 2017 joyce, patrick-weston.
retrieved from university of california library via archive.org 18 november 2017
retrieved 27 november 2017 .
doubleday and mcclure-company, retrieved from new-york-public-library via archive.org 24 november 2017
doubleday, page & and company, retrieved from harvard-university-library via archive.org 22 november 2017
retrieved 27 november 2017 .
228–233 retrieved from prelinger-library via archive.org 10 april 2018 republished in sheridan-le-fanu, joseph (1923)
london: george-bell & sons, retrieved from project-gutenberg 10 april 2018
london, macmillan & company, retrieved from project-gutenberg 5 november 2017
1888).irish-fairy-tales-london: t.-fisher-unwin, retrieved from university of california library via archive.org 20 november 2017
1910).celtic wonder-tales-book-dublin: maunsel & company-ltd, retrieved from university of california library via archive.org 22 november 2017
an-american-science-fiction-television-series created by rick-berman and brannon-braga originally aired from september 26, 2001, to may 13, 2005, on upn (see list of star-trek: enterprise-episodes).
the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise, the-sixth-series in the-star-trek-franchise is a-prequel to star-trek: the-original-series, set in the-22nd-century, a-hundred-years before the-events of the-original-series and just prior to the-formation of the-united-federation of planets.
following the-culmination of star-trek: deep-space-nine and with star-trek: voyager scheduled to end , upn asked braga and berman to create a-new-series to continue the star-trek franchise.
the-cancellation marked the-first-time in 18-years that no-new-star-trek-episodes would be produced, the-beginning of a-hiatus that lasted until the-launch of star-trek
enterprise had no-tractor-beam, but utilized grappler cables; and used missiles instead of particle-weapons (see weapons in star-trek); in season 1, phaser-cannons were added, similar to those on enterprise in the-original-series.
the-original-series also showed the-crew making first-contacts with a-number of races previously seen in the-franchise.
electronics in enterprise were also more compact than those of previous-(future)-series, as advances in real-world-technology made devices seen in the-original-series and voyager seem anachronistically oversized.
at the-start of the-series, braga said that they did not have a-plan for who the-character would turn out to be.
ten years after the-end of the-series, braga stated that future-guy was archer manipulating archer own-timeline; archer and berman had previously stated that the-character was intended to be a-romulan.
in star-trek: discovery season 3, it's mentioned that after the-temporal-wars all-time-travel was outlawed and all-existing-time-travel-devices were destroyed.
production == ===
instead, the-producers opted to create a-prequel to the-original-series set after the-events in the-film star-trek: first-contact, as braga and berman felt it was a-period in the star-trek universe which was unexplored.
the-network-executives needed to be convinced of the-viability of a-prequel-series, as the-network-executives had assumed that the-series would take the-franchise further into the-future.
it was intended to link the-previous-series in the-star-trek-franchise directly into the-original-series by having t'pau, who had previously appeared in the-episode "amok-time", as a-main-character.
he said that this-setting would combine elements of the-original-series while having "a-lot of fresh-and-new-elements in this-setting".
as part of this-change, the-decision was made to drop "star-trek" from the-title, but berman explained that "if there's any-one-word that says star-trek without actually saying star-trek, that-word is enterprise".
this-title lasted until the-third-episode of season three,-"extinction", when the-series was renamed star trek:-enterprise as demanded by paramount-television-executives in an-effort to reconnect the-series with the-fans of the-franchise.
manny-coto was a-fan of the-original-series and sought to link enterprise more closely to that-earlier-show.
park was not required to audition, but instead was hired on the-basis of her-performance in a-scene her appeared in the-wb-series popular alongside anthony-montgomery – despite that the-character was intended to be older until park was cast.
randy-oglesby, rick-worthy and scott-macdonald had also appeared in a-variety of roles within the-franchise before taking on the-recurring-parts of xindi-council-members throughout season three.
during season four, this-idea was raised once again with the-reeves-stevens suggesting that the-tantalus-field (previously thought to be a-raygun seen in the-original-series-episode "mirror, mirror" actually sent mirror victims back in time to a-penal-colony in the-regular-universe.
stages 8 and 9 had housed sets for the-earlier-star-trek-series since production was started on the-abandoned-star-trek:
after rush began testing a-sony-digital-camera on the-standing-sets for two-days prior to production on "storm-front" and demonstrated the-footage to braga and berman, the-decision was made to switch to digital-production.
the-fourth-season has been released multiple times, with latest as a-combined-full-series-set in january 2017.
dennis-mccarthy work on "broken-bow" was subsequently released in the-united-states on cd by decca-records.
the-franchise was known for typically using orchestral-themes, but berman said that the-theme-tune would be more "contemporary" than heard in previous-series and a "little hipper".
on february 3, 2005, enterprise was announced that enterprise had been cancelled.
this-news was passed to the-cast and crew during the-sixth-day of production on "in a mirror, darkly".
the-end of the-series marked the-first-time in 18-years that no-new-star-trek-episodes were scheduled for broadcast, and enterprise was the-first-live-action-series of the-franchise since the-series to last less-than-seven-years.
the-current-run of star-trek is over.
the-current-run of star-trek needs a-rest".
he added that he was not sure how long star-trek would be off the-air, but called the-current-run of star-trek a "gestation" instead of a "cancellation".
season five ===
at the-time of the-cancellation, coto had hoped for renewal and had already started to make plans for season five ===.
these included the-expectation that the-show would begin to cover the-buildup to the-romulan-war, as well as continue to link to the-original-series with references to things such as the-cloud-city of stratos as seen in "the-cloud-minders".
production had begun on the-new-kzinti-ships for "kilkenny-cats", with josh-finney commissioned.
sky one, before airing on channel 4 during july 2002, becoming the-first-star-trek-series not to be broadcast terrestrially by the-bbc.
all-four-seasons of enterprise entered broadcast-syndication in the-united-states during the-week of september 17, 2005.
episodes from the-second-season were not planned to air until september 2006.
the-first-home-media-release of enterprise in the-united-states was of the-full-first-season on dvd, which was released on may 3, 2005.
the-remaining-seasons were released over the-course of the-next-months, with season four brought out in november of that-year.
the-original-series and star-trek: the-next-generation, with season one delivered on march 26, 2013.
the-fans of the-franchise were asked for feedback on potential-covers for the-first-season-release, but as there was no-clear-winner, a-new-design was created based on the-feedback received.
the-second-season was released on august 20, 2013, the-third-season was on january 7, 2014, and the-final-season on april 29, 2014.
in january 2017 a-new-24-disc-blu-ray-set of the-whole-series was released.
the-first-novel released based on the-series was broken-bow, authored by diane-carey for pocket-books and released in october 2001 in the-united-states.
the-first-novel released based on the-series was by the-book, published in january 2002 and written by dean-wesley-smith and kristine-katheryn-rusch.
as both-games progress chronologically, the-gamer then moves onto the-uss-enterprise seen in the-original-series and later-depictions afterwards.
the-film star-trek into darkness (2013) references enterprise with a-model of the nx-01 in a-collection depicting the-history of flight in fleet-admiral-alexander-marcus'
tom-russo proclaimed in entertainment-weekly that "it's dead-jim – almost", attributing the-lack of appeal of star-trek: nemesis and the-dwindling-ratings received by enterprise as demonstrating that the-franchise was tired.
star-trek: enterprise at imdb star-trek: enterprise at startrek.com star-trek: enterprise at memory-alpha (a star-trek wiki)
the-original-series (tos) to distinguish the-starship-uss-enterprise within the-media-franchise that the-starship-uss-enterprise began.
the-series was produced from september 1966 to december 1967 by norway-productions and desilu-productions, and by paramount-television from january 1968 to june 1969.
star-trek aired on nbc from september 8, 1966, to june 3, 1969, and was actually seen first on september 6, 1966, on canada's-ctv-network.
star-trek eventually spawned a-franchise, consisting of eight-television-series, 13-feature-films, and numerous-books, games, and toys, and is now widely considered one of the-most-popular-and-influential-television-series of all-time.
on march 11, 1964, gene-roddenberry, a-long-time-fan of science-fiction, drafted a-short-treatment for a-science-fiction-television-series that he called star trek.
roddenberry noted a-number of influences on roddenberry idea, some of which includes a.-e.-van-vogt's-tales of the-spaceship-space-beagle, eric-frank-russell's-marathon-series of stories, and the-film forbidden-planet (1956).
most-future-television-and-movie-realizations of the-franchise adhered to the-"wagon-train"-paradigm of the-continuing-journey, with the-notable-exception of the-serialized-star-trek: deep-space-nine, star-trek: discovery, star-trek: picard, and the-third-season of star-trek:-enterprise.
april is listed in the-star-trek-chronology, the-star-trek-encyclopedia, and at startrek.com as the-enterprise's-first-commanding-officer, preceding captain-christopher-pike.
in april 1964, roddenberry presented the-star-trek-draft to desilu-productions, a-leading-independent-television-production-company.
oscar-katz, desilu's-vice-president of production refused to purchase the-show, as oscar-katz, desilu's-vice-president of production already had a-similar-show in development, the-1965-irwin-allen-series lost in space.
this-second-pilot proved to be satisfactory to nbc, and nbc selected star-trek to be in nbc upcoming television-schedule for the-fall of 1966.
in february 1966, before the-first-episode was aired, star-trek was nearly cancelled by desilu-productions.
production ==
once the-series had been picked up by nbc, production == moved to what was then desilu productions' gower street location.
production == had previously been the-main-studio-complex used by rko-pictures, and is now part of the-paramount-pictures-lot.
season 1 (1966–1967) ===
the-first-regular-episode of star-trek, "the-man-trap", aired on thursday, september 8, 1966, from 8:30 to 9:30 as part of an--nbc "sneak preview"-block.
debuting against mostly-reruns, star-trek easily won star-trek time slot with a-40.6-share.
frederik-pohl, editor of galaxy-science-fiction, wrote in february 1967 of his-amazement that star-trek's-"regular-shows were just as good" as the-early-episodes that won an-award at tricon in september.
nbc instead decided to order 10-more-new-episodes for the-first-season, and order a-second-season in march 1967.
season 2 (1967–1968) ===
as early as january 1968, the-associated-press reported that star trek chances for renewal for a-third-season were "excellent".
again, demographics helped star-trek survive.
the-network's-research did indicate that star-trek had a-"quality-audience" including "upper-income,-better-educated-males", however, and other-nbc-shows had lower-overall-ratings.
when rumors spread in late 1967 that star-trek was at risk of cancellation, roddenberry secretly began and funded an-effort by bjo-trimble, roddenberry husband john, and other-fans to persuade tens-of-thousands of viewers to write letters of support to save the-program.
nbc received almost-116,000-letters for the-show between december 1967 and march 1968, including more than 52,000 in february alone; according to an nbc executive, nbc received more-than-one-million-pieces of mail but only disclosed the-116,000-figure.
more-than-200-caltech-students marched to nbc's-burbank,-california-studio to support star-trek in january 1968, carrying signs such as "draft-spock" and "vulcan-power".
nbc—which used such-anecdotes in much of nbc publicity for the-show—made the-unusual-decision to announce on television, after the-episode "the-omega-glory" on march 1, 1968, that the-series had been renewed.
season 3 (1968–1969) ===
nbc at first planned to move star-trek to mondays for the-show's-third-season, likely in hopes of increasing nbc audience after the-enormous-letter-campaign that surprised the-network.
in march 1968, though, nbc instead moved the-show to 10:00-pm friday night, an hour undesirable for nbc younger audience, so as not to conflict with the-highly-successful-rowan-&-martin's-laugh-in on monday-evenings, from whose-time-slot laugh-
in addition to the-undesirable-time-slot, star-trek was now being seen on only 181 of nbc's-210-affiliates.
roddenberry attempted to persuade nbc to give star-trek a-better-day and hour, but was not successful.
roddenberry reduced roddenberry direct involvement in star-trek before the-start of the-1968–69-television-season, and was replaced by fred-freiberger as the-producer of the-television-series.
nichelle-nichols described the-budget-cutting during the-final-year as an-intentional-effort to kill off star-trek: while nbc paid lip-service to expanding star-trek audience, it [now] slashed our-production-budget until it was actually 10% lower than it had been in our-first-season ...
the-last-day of filming for star-trek was january 9, 1969, and after 79-episodes nbc cancelled the-show in february despite fans'-attempt at another-letter-writing-campaign.
in 2011, the-decision to cancel star-trek by nbc was ranked number four on the-tv-guide-network-special, 25 biggest tv blunders 2.
although many of the-third-season's-episodes were considered of poor-quality, many of the-third-season's-episodes were considered of poor-quality gave star-trek enough-episodes for television-syndication.
kaiser-broadcasting, however, purchased syndication-rights for star-trek during the-first-season for kaiser-broadcasting stations in several-large-cities.
paramount began advertising the-reruns in trade-press in march 1969; as kaiser's-ratings were good,-other-stations, such as wpix in new-york-city and wkbs in philadelphia, also purchased the-episodes for similar-counterprogramming.
through syndication, star-trek found a-larger-audience than star-trek had on nbc, becoming a-cult-classic.
by 1972, what the-associated-press described as "the-show that won't die" aired in more-than-100-american-cities and 60-other-countries; and more-than-3,000-fans attended the-first-star-trek-convention in new-york-city in january 1972.
because fans enjoyed re-watching each-episode many times, prices for star-trek rose over time, instead of falling like other-syndicated-reruns.
by 1986, 17 years after entering syndication, star-trek was the-most-popular-syndicated-series; by 1987, paramount made $1 million from each-episode; and by 1994, the-reruns still aired in 94% of the-united-states.
from september 1 to december 24, 1998, the-sci-fi-channel broadcast a-"special-edition" of all-the-original-series-episodes in an-expanded-90-minute-format hosted by william-shatner.
leonard-nimoy hosted a-second-run from december 28, 1998 to march 24, 1999, but not-all-the-episodes were broadcast because leonard-nimoy was abruptly cancelled before completion.
in september 2006, cbs-paramount-domestic-television (now known as cbs-television-distribution, the-current-rights-holders for the-star-trek-television-franchises) began syndication of an-enhanced-version of star-trek:
the-original-series in high-definition with new-cgi-visual-effects.
the-original-series a more modern look.
the-first-episode to be released to syndication was "balance of terror" on the-weekend of september 16, 2006.
on july 26, 2007, cbs-home-entertainment (with distribution by paramount-home-entertainment) announced that the-remastered-episodes of tos would be released on an-hd-dvd/dvd-hybrid-format.
season one was released on november 20, 2007.
season two had been scheduled for release in the-summer of 2008, but
season two was cancelled when toshiba (which had been helping finance the-remastering of the-show) pulled out of the-hd-dvd-business.
season 3 was released on dvd only on november 18, 2008.
on february 17, 2009, paramount announced the-season one of tos on blu-ray-disc for a-may-release to coincide with the-new-feature-film coming from paramount.
the-second-season was released in a-seven-disc-set on blu-ray in the-u.s. on september 22, 2009.
the-third-season was released on blu-ray in the-u.s. on december 15.
in regions two and four, all-three-seasons of the-remastered-original-series became available on dvd in the-slimline-edition (in the-uk and germany in steelbook-editions) on april 27, 2009, as well as the-first-season in blu-ray.
according to nichelle-nichols, "they gave me a-three-page-script to read from that had three-characters named bones, kirk and somebody called spock, and they asked me if i would read for the-role of spock.
however, documentation from desilu suggests that the-intention was to introduce a-character into star-trek with more-sex-appeal to teenaged-girls.
the-original-series that walter-koenig doubted the-rumor about pravda, since star-trek had never been shown on soviet-television.
the-original-series that he doubted the-rumor about pravda, since star-trek had never been shown on soviet-television has also been claimed that the-former-member of the-monkees, davy-jones, was the-model for mr.-chekov.
in addition, the-original-series frequently included characters (usually-security-personnel wearing red-uniforms) who are killed or injured soon after their-introduction.
star-trek made celebrities of star-trek cast of largely-unknown-actors.
nimoy had partnered previously with shatner in a-1964-episode of the-man from u.n.c.l.e., "the-project-strigas-affair," and with kelley (as a-doctor) in a-1963-episode of the-virginian, "man of violence," both-more-than-two-years before star-trek first aired.
after the-original-series ended, cast-members found cast-members typecast because of cast-members defining roles in the-show.
as that-show and its-spin-offs progressed, several-tos-actors made appearances reprising several-tos-actors original-characters: james-kirk disappears in 2293 during the-maiden-voyage of the-enterprise-b as seen in the-film star-trek: generations.
however, now chronologically 138 years old, but still only-physically-60-years-old-james-kirk is recovered after spending 78-years in the-nexus, an-alternative-plane of existence, by enterprise-d-captain-jean-luc-picard in the-film star-trek.
he ends up stranded in the-23rd-century of the-film-series, where he settles on new-vulcan; in the-sequel-film star-trek into darkness, he is contacted by he younger self regarding the-villainous-khan-noonien-singh.
while not appearing in star-trek-beyond, it is mentioned in the-2009-reboot-film where his-science-vessel originated from the-24th-century–era of tng that the-character has died, as an-homage to the-real-life-passing of actor-leonard-nimoy.
in addition, many-actors who appeared on the-original-series later made guest-appearances as different-characters in later-series, most-notably-majel-barrett, who not only provided the-voice for most-starfleet-computers in episodes of every-spin-off-series (including a-single-appearance on star-trek: enterprise, where the-computers normally did not speak at all), but also had the-recurring-role of lwaxana-troi in the-next-generation and deep-space-nine.
the-next-generation as the-enterprise-d's-chief-medical-officer, dr.-pulaski); ricardo-montalbán as khan-noonien-singh in "space-seed" then reprised the-role in the-film star-trek-ii:
in "day of the-dove", reprising the-role in the-deep-space-nine-episode "blood-oath" and the-voyager-episode-"flashback";-william-marshall in "the-ultimate-computer"; julie-newmar in "friday's-child"; kim-darby and michael-j.-pollard in "miri"; robert-lansing and teri-garr in "assignment: earth";
william-windom in "the-doomsday-machine"; john-colicos as the-klingon-commander-kor in "errand of mercy," reprising the-role in three-episodes of deep-space-nine; robert-walker-jr. in "charlie-x"; lee-meriwether in "that which survives"; roger-c.-carmel and karen-steele in "mudd's-women" and "i, mudd";
the-undiscovered-country, as well as in the-tng-episodes "sarek" and "unification, part 1"; jane-wyatt as spock's-mother amanda-grayson in "journey to babel," reprising the-role in the-film star-trek-iv:
season and episodes == ===
in its-writing, star-trek is notable as one of the-earliest-science-fiction-tv-series to use the-services of leading-contemporary-science-fiction-writers, such as robert-bloch, norman-spinrad, harlan-ellison, and theodore-sturgeon, as well as established-television-writers.
in november 1968, just a few months after the-first-televised-interracial-touch, the-episode "plato's-stepchildren" went incorrectly down in history as the first american television show to feature a-scripted-interracial-kiss between characters (capt.
this was a-regular-occurrence in the-1960s and star-trek suffered from the-1960s fair share of tampering.
in 1983, leonard-nimoy hosted a-one-hour-special as a-promotional-tie-in with the-film star-trek-iii:
the-search for spock, in which he recounted he-memories of working on the-original-series and explained the-origins of things such as the-vulcan-nerve-pinch and the-vulcan-salute, as well as a-re-airing of the-tos-episode-"space-seed".
series-producer-robert-justman noted in the-book inside star-trek-the-real-story, that work on the-film
the-tracked-musical-underscores were chosen and edited to the-episode by the-music-editors, principal of whom were robert-raff (most of season one), jim-henrikson (season one and two), and richard-lapham (season three).some of the-original-recordings of the-music were released in the-united-states commercially on the-gnp-crescendo-record-co.-label.
finally in december 2012, the-complete-original-recordings were released by la-la-land-records as a-15-cd-box-set, with liner-notes by jeff-bond.
season 1: "the cage" (alexander-courage) "
although this-series never won any-emmys, star-trek was nominated for the-following-emmy-awards: outstanding-dramatic-series (gene-roddenberry and gene-l.-coon), 1967 outstanding-dramatic-series (gene-roddenberry), 1968-outstanding-supporting-actor (leonard-nimoy as mr.-spock), 1967, 1968, 1969-individual-achievement in art-direction and allied-crafts (jim-rugg), 1967
star-trek won both-years for the-episodes "the-menagerie" and "the-city on the-edge of forever", respectively.
in 1968, star-trek (the-t.v.-show) won a-special-hugo-award for dramatic-presentation.
in 1967, star-trek was also one of the-first-television-programs to receive an-naacp-image-award.
in 1968, star-trek most-critically-acclaimed-episode, "the-city on the-edge of forever," written by harlan-ellison, won the prestigious writers guild of america award for best-original-teleplay, although this was for harlan-ellison's original draft script, and not for the-screenplay of the-episode as it aired.
in 2004 and 2007, tv-guide ranked star-trek as the-greatest-cult-show ever.
in 2013, tv-guide ranked star-trek as the-greatest-cult-show and the-#12-greatest-show of all-time.
episodes of the-original-series were among the-first-television-series to be released on the-vhs-and-laserdisc-formats in north-america.
in february 2009 cbs and paramount announced that cbs and paramount would release the-original-series on blu-ray.
season one, two, and three were released on april 28, september 22, and december 15, respectively.
all-79-episodes of the-original-series on blu-ray have been digitally remastered by cbs-home-entertainment (distributed by paramount) and have since been released on dvd.
cbs-home-entertainment (distributed by paramount) released season one of the-original-series on blu-ray-blu-ray on april 28, 2009.
in january 2007, the first season of star-trek: the-original-series became available for download from apple's-itunes-store.
on march 20, 2007, the-first-season was again added to the-itunes-store, with separate-downloads for the-original-and-remastered-versions of the-show, though according to the-customer-reviews, the-original-version contains minor-revisions such as special-effect-enhancements.
netflix began online-streaming of five of the-six-star-trek-television-series on july 1, 2011; deep-space-nine followed on october 1, 2011.
when the-original-television-series was canceled, star-trek-creator-gene-roddenberry lobbied to continue the-franchise through a-film.
paramount instead planned on returning the-franchise to paramount roots with a-new-television-series (phase ii).
the-massive-worldwide-box-office-success of star-wars in mid-1977 sent hollywood-studios to hollywood-studios vaults in search of similar-sci-fi-properties that could be adapted or re-launched to the-big-screen.
following the-huge-opening of columbia's-close-encounters of the-third-kind in late-december 1977, production of phase-ii was cancelled in favor of making a-star-trek-film.
in february 2007, j.-j.-abrams accepted paramount's-offer to direct the-new-film, having been previously attached as producer.
this-revival of the-franchise is often considered to be a-reboot, but is also a-continuation of the-franchise, with nimoy reprising nimoy role of the-elderly-spock.
this-new-reality was informally referred to by several-names, including the-"abramsverse", "jj-trek" and "nutrek", before it was named the "kelvin timeline" (versus the-"prime-timeline" of the-original-series and films) by michael and denise-okuda for use in official-star-trek-reference-guides and encyclopedias.
the-name kelvin comes from the uss kelvin, a-starship involved in the-event that creates the-new-reality in star-trek (2009).
abrams named the-starship after abrams grandfather henry kelvin, whom abrams also pays tribute to in into darkness with the-kelvin-memorial-archive.
the-three-films in the-kelvin-timeline include star-trek (2009), star-trek into darkness (2013) and star-trek: beyond (2016).
the-original-series has inspired many-commercial-products, including toys, comic-books, and many-other-materials.
from february 1984 through february 1996, dc-comics held the-license to publish comic-books based upon the-star-trek-franchise, including star-trek: the-original-series.
the-new-comic-anthologies, produced by joshua-ortega, were released annually in september 2006 (shinsei shinsei) and 2007
the-original-series has been parodied many times in other-television-series.
the-canadian-comedy-duo wayne and shuster parodied star-trek as star-schtick in the-late-1970s.
t)raumschiff-surprise – periode 1 (2004) is a-movie directed by michael-herbig which parodies star-trek and star-wars.
star-trek has inspired many-fans to produce stories for free-internet-distribution.
asimov corrected asimov with a-follow-up-essay to tv-guide claiming despite tv-guide inaccuracies, that star-trek was a-fresh-and-intellectually-challenging-science-fiction-television-show.
on review-aggregator-rotten-tomatoes, season 1 received an-approval-rating of 92% based on 24-reviews, with an-average-rating of 9/10.
, star-trek may look dated, but star-trek gadgetry and solid-storytelling solidify star-trek place as one of pop-culture's-most-enduring-franchises.
season 2 received an-approval-rating of 100% based on 6-reviews, with an-average-rating of 7.33/10.
season 3 received an-approval-rating of 50% based on 10-reviews, with an-average-rating of 5.5/10.
the-critical-consensus reads, "budget-cuts leave the-stars of star-trek stranded among shoddy-set-pieces and clunky-writing – though even at its-worst-fans may still enjoy its-campy-delights. "
in 2018, indiewire ranked star-trek the-original-series as the-8th-best-space-science-fiction-show set in outer-space, including 18-overall-shows from this-genre.
in 2019, popular-mechanics ranked star-trek
"beam me up, scotty" outline of star-trek-timeline of star-trek ==
the-original-series at cbs
the-original-series at imdb-star-trek:
the-original-series at tv.com-star-trek:
the-original-series collected news and commentary at the-new-york-times-star-trek:
the-original-series at memory-alpha-star-trek:
the-original-series and follows the-crew of the-uss-discovery.
the-series was announced in november 2015, with fuller set as showrunner.
the-series premiered on september 24, 2017, on cbs and cbs all access.
all-access, ending in february 2018.
the-14-episode-second-season was released on all-access from january to april 2019, and the-13-episode-third-season ran from october 2020 to january 2021.
the-character is inspired by a-real-life-mycologist of the-same-name.
the-character is the-first-openly-gay-character in a-star-trek-series.
rapp acknowledged that hikaru-sulu was portrayed as gay in the-film star-trek
the-character represents people at the-bottom of the-starfleet-hierarchy.
season one co-showrunner aaron-harberts described season one co-showrunner aaron-harberts as optimistic and "sort of the-soul of our-show."
jason-isaacs described the-character as "probably more f-ked up than any of"-the-previously-seen-star-trek-captains.
jason-isaacs plays the-character with a-slight-southern-u.s.-accent, and had initially wanted to ad-lib a-catchphrase for the-character, feeling that all-star-trek-captains should have one, coming up with "git'r done" which the-writers turned down due to it being widely used and trademarked by larry the-cable-guy.
as hugh-culber said portraying the-first-openly-gay-couple in star-trek was "a-long-time coming" and praised the-way the-series did not go out of the-series way to focus on the-first-openly-gay-couple in star-trek relationship.
the-character is killed in the-first-season, but returns from the-dead in the-second-season in a-larger-role.
the-character was first portrayed by jeffrey-hunter in "the-cage".
production == ===
on november 2, 2015, cbs announced a-new-star-trek-television-series to premiere in january 2017, "on the-heels" of the-50th-anniversary of star-trek:
the-original-series in 2016.
alex-kurtzman, co-writer of the-films star-trek (2009) and star-trek into darkness (2013), and heather-kadin were set as executive-producers on the-series, which would not be related to the-2016-film star-trek beyond.
deep-space-nine and star-trek: voyager, bryan-fuller was announced as the-new-series'-showrunner and co-creator alongside kurtzman in february 2016.
fuller said that working with people previously involved with star-trek was "really about making sure that we maintain authenticity", and said that meyer—who is widely considered to have made the best star-trek film in the-wrath of khan—brings "a-clarity and a-cleanliness to the-storytelling.
fuller had publicly called for star-trek to return to television for years, particularly because of fuller impact on minority-groups, as fuller explained, "i couldn't stop thinking about how-many-black-people were inspired by seeing nichelle-nichols on the-bridge of a-ship.
fuller announced in june 2016 that the-first-season would consist of 13-episodes, though fuller would prefer to produce 10-episodes a season moving forward.
a month later, fuller announced the-series'-title to be star-trek: discovery, and revealed that the-series' would be set in the-"prime-timeline" (which includes the previous star-trek series, but not-the-modern-reboot-films) to keep the-concurrent-series and films separate, so
also in july, cbs-studios-international licensed the-series to netflix for release outside the-united-states and canada, a-"blockbuster"-deal that paid for the-show's-entire-budget (around us$6–7 million per episode).
at the-end of october, cbs asked fuller to step down as showrunner, and announced a-restructuring of the-production: berg and harberts were made sole showrunners, working from a broad story arc and overall-mythology established by fuller; kurtzman and fuller would continue as executive-producers, but with fuller moving fuller attention fully to american-gods; and akiva-goldsman would join the-series' in a-supporting-producer-role, similar to the-role fuller held on fringe alongside kurtzman.
with production set to finally begin on the-series in january 2017 , "a-lot of careful-deliberation [was] continuing to go into making discovery special, from the-choice of directors, to set design, to the-special-effects."
in june, cbs announced a-new-premiere-date of september 24, 2017, with the-season airing through november 2017, and then beginning again in january 2018.
the-second-season was officially ordered in october 2017, consisting of 13-episodes.
goldsman did not return for the-second-season after clashing with the-series writing staff during production on the first, while meyer was not asked to return for the-second-season.
in june 2018, when production on the-second-season was underway, cbs fired berg and harberts.
after kurtzman took over, the-second-season was confirmed to be on track for a-january-2019-premiere, though there ultimately was enough of a-delay in production that cbs extended the-season's-episode count to 14 as a-way to amortize the-cost of the-delays.
in october 2019, kurtzman said the-third-season would consist of 13-episodes.
active-development on a-fourth-season had begun by january 2020, and active-development on a-fourth-season was officially announced in october.
fuller wanted to differentiate the-series' from the previous 700+ episodes of star-trek by taking advantage of the-streaming-format of all-access and telling a-single-story-arc across the-entire-first-season.
fuller and kurtzman developed this-story from the-"dna" of certain-the-original-series-episodes to find "the-spirit of what star-trek offers, both in terms of high-concept-science-fiction-storytelling and really-wonderful-metaphors for the-human-condition".
in may 2017, sullivan described the-series as "a-genuine-prequel" to the-original-series, with goldsman later adding that there were many-classic-star-trek-elements that fans among the-writers wished to include in the-series, but couldn't because fans among the-writers were included in the-original-series as something being discovered by starfleet for the-first-time then.
harberts ultimately described the-series as a "hard pg-13", saying the-series could include "some-violent-things or [a]-tiny-bit of language" but they still wanted the-show to be for families and to "honor what the-franchise is."
by june 2016, fuller had met with several-actors, and said that "we want to carry on what star-trek does best, which is being progressive.
in november 2016, doug-jones and anthony-rapp were revealed to be cast, as science officers saru and stamets, respectively.
sonequa-martin-green was cast in the-lead-role in december, which was officially confirmed in april 2017, with the-character's-name revealed to be michael-burnham.
in march 2017, jason-isaacs was cast as captain-lorca of the-uss-discovery, and mary-wiseman joined as tilly, a-cadet.
at the-end of april, shazad-latif was revealed to have been recast in the-role of starfleet-lieutenant-tyler.
in the-series, the-role of starfleet-lieutenant-tyler is shown to be an-undercover-persona used by the-klingon-voq, who was initially credited as being portrayed by the-invented-actor javid-iqbal to hide the-fact that shazad-latif was portraying both voq and starfleet-lieutenant-tyler.
rapp revealed in july 2017 that wilson-cruz, whom rapp had previously worked with on the-musical-rent, would portray stamets'-love-interest-hugh-culber.
the-character is killed off during the-first-season, which was criticized by some as following the "bury your-gays" trope.
after the-first-season concluded with the-discovery receiving a-distress-call from the-uss-enterprise, specifically from captain-christopher-pike, harberts expressed interest in exploring that-character; anson-mount was cast in the-role in april 2018, and stars for the-second-season.
in september 2020, non-binary-newcomer-blu-del-barrio was revealed to be portraying adira, while transgender-actor-ian-alexander was announced as cast in another-guest-role for the-third-season, the-trill-character gray.
mark-worthington and todd-cherniawsky served as initial-production-designers for the-series, with tamara-deverell taking over during production on the-first-season; gersha-phillips and suttirat-anne-larlarb designed the-costumes for the-series; veteran-star-trek-designer-john-eaves designed starships with scott-schneider; glenn-hetrick and neville-page of alchemy-studios provided prosthetics and armor, with page having previously designed for the-"kelvin-timeline"-star-trek-films; and mario-moreira served as prop-master for the-series.
all of the-other-series have been produced [at a-time that] isn't as sophisticated as the-designers are now with what we can do production-wise, the-designers're going to be reestablishing an-entire-look for the-series" and for star-trek moving forward.
the-design of the-uss-discovery is based on an-unused-ralph-mcquarrie-design for the-uss-enterprise from the-unproduced-film star-trek: planet of the-titans, which fuller had noted in july 2016 was "to a-point that we can't legally comment on the-design of the-uss-discovery until [we-legal-team] figures out some-things".
the-design of the-uss-discovery the-uss-discovery went through several-revisions and refinements before the-final-version was approved in december 2016.
prologue-creative-director ana-criado "wasn't all that versed" in star-trek before beginning work on the-sequence, which proved to be an-advantage when the-series'-producers asked for the-opening-title-sequence for the-show to be unlike any previous star-trek titles sequence.
some of the-series'-sets took over-six-weeks to create, and new-sets were being built up until the-end of production of the-season.
fuller said, "we're trying to cultivate distinct-looks for all of those-things that are unique to we version of star-trek and carry through the-themes we love seeing in fifty-years of star-trek, but doing a-slightly-different-approach.
before production on the-series began, charles-henri-avelange had also composed and recorded-music as "a-showcase for cbs", while both-cliff-eidelman and austin-wintory were considered for the-series composer.
in july 2017, jeff-russo was announced as composer for the-series.
russo acknowledged that not-all-existing-star-trek-fans were going to appreciate the-new-theme, but felt that regardless of how some felt it compared to previous-themes in the-franchise it still accurately represented this-series.
individual soundtrack albums for the-two-chapters of the-first-season were respectively released on december 15, 2017, and april 6, 2018.
a-soundtrack-album for the-second-season was released on july 19, 2019.
a-toy-license-deal with cbs will also see cbs "create merchandise from the-entire-star-trek-universe, ranging from the-classic the-original-series to cbs popular movie franchise.
the-first-episode of star-trek: discovery aired in a-"preview-broadcast" on cbs in the-united-states and was made available with the-second-episode on cbs all access.
in september 2020, viacomcbs announced that cbs-all-access would be expanded and rebranded as paramount+
in march 2021.
lawsuit == was dismissed by judge-lorna-g.-schofield in september 2019, finding that the-series and video-game were not "substantially similar as a-matter of law", and that the-only-similarities were the-space-setting and the-use of alien-tardigrades.
cbs and kurtzman began referring to the-expanded-franchise as the-star-trek-universe at the-2019-san-diego-comic-con, and monthly-meetings with the-showrunners of each-new-series were being held by april 2021 to allow coordination between the-different-series and ensure that "cbs and kurtzman're not stepping on each-other's-toes" by using the-same-elements of the-universe, according to kurtzman.
the-expanded-franchise includes several-direct-spin-offs from star-trek
kurtzman announced in july 2018 that a-companion-series of shorts would be released between the-seasons of discovery to "deliver closed-ended-stories while revealing clues about what's to come in future-star-trek:
kurtzman confirmed that development on such-a-series had begun in january 2020.
by november 2018, michelle-yeoh was in talks with cbs to star in a-spin-off-series as michelle-yeoh character philippa georgiou, with the-series expected to follow michelle-yeoh adventures as a-member of the-secretive-organization-section 31.
discovery-writers bo-yeon-kim and erika-lippoldt were set as writers and showrunners of the-new-series in january 2019.
kurtzman said filming on the-spin-off would begin once filming on the-third-season of discovery was completed, but production on the-spin-off was delayed by the-covid-19-pandemic.
in february 2021, kurtzman said there was still conversations taking place about making the-series, but it was unlikely to be added to paramount+'s-star-trek-universe-slate until one of the-existing-five-series came to an-end.
in september 2016, discovery-writer-kirsten-beyer announced that cbs was working with idw and simon & schuster to produce more-content revolving around the-setting of the-series, starting with at-least-one-novel and a-comic-book tied to the-television-series.
in july 2017, idw announced a-new-tie-in-miniseries based on discovery, described as "klingon-centric".
discovery-annual on march 28, 2018, written by kirsten-beyer and mike-johnson.
the-second-four-issue-miniseries, succession, was also written by kirsten-beyer and mike-johnson mike-johnson and began kirsten-beyer and mike-johnson release in april 2018.
kirsten-beyer and mike-johnson is set in the-mirror-universe and expands on the-mirror-universe story arc from the-second-chapter of the-first-season a-one-shot-issue, exploring events aboard discovery with saru acting as captain on a-one-time-mission, was announced in november 2018.
in september 2019, a-three-issue-miniseries called aftermath began discovery with saru .
by august 2017, "hours" of discovery-based-content were set to be added to the-video-game star-trek-timelines, including introducing michael-burnham and saru as new-crew-members for the-game and new-ships from the-show, federation and otherwise.
in july 2018, a tie-in for the-game
in january 2020, martin-green was set to voice burnham for star-trek-online's-"legacy"-expansion celebrating 10-years of the-game.
before july 2016, cbs began developing an-aftershow-companion-series to discovery, similar to amc's-talking-dead, a-companion to the walking dead.
in january 2019, after trek was officially canceled and replaced by weekly-facebook-live-events to be streamed the day after each-second-season
november 14, 2017.
star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise created by george-lucas, which began with the-eponymous-1977-film and quickly became a-worldwide-pop-culture-phenomenon.
the-original-film (star-wars), retroactively subtitled episode-iv: a-new-hope (1977), was followed by the-sequels episode-v:
lucas later returned to filmmaking to direct a-prequel-trilogy, consisting of episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), episode-ii: attack of the-clones (2002), and episode-iii: revenge of the-sith (2005).
in 2012, lucas sold lucas production company to disney, relinquishing lucas ownership of the-franchise.
the first will be a-film titled rogue squadron, which is being directed by patty-jenkins, and is scheduled for release on december 25, 2023.
in september 2019, it was announced that kathleen-kennedy and kevin-feige would collaborate to develop a-star-wars-film.
in february 2020, a-film was announced to be in development from director-j.-d.-dillard and writer-matt-owens.
in 1971, george-lucas wanted to film an-adaptation of the-flash-gordon-serial, but could not obtain the-rights, so george-lucas began developing george-lucas own-space-opera.
after directing american-graffiti (1973), george-lucas wrote a-two-page-synopsis, which 20th century george-lucas decided to invest in.
the-1977-movie's-success led lucas to make it the basis of an-elaborate-film-serial.
with the-backstory he created for the-sequel, lucas decided that the-series would be a-trilogy of trilogies.
star-wars was released on may 25, 1977, and first-subtitled-episode-iv:
a-new-hope in the-1979-book the-art of star-wars.
in 1980, lucas confirmed that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but due to the-stress of producing the-original-trilogy, lucas had decided to cancel further-sequels by 1981.
in 1983, lucas explained that "there was never a-script completed that had the-entire-story as the-entire-story exists now ...
i kept taking out all-the-good-parts, and i just kept telling lucas i would make other-movies someday. "
advances in the-late-1980s and early-1990s, including the-ability to create computer-generated-imagery (cgi), inspired lucas to consider that it might be possible to revisit lucas saga.
in 1989, lucas stated that the-prequels would be "unbelievably expensive."
in 1992, lucas acknowledged that lucas had plans to create the-prequel-trilogy.
together with the-original-trilogy, lucas has collectively referred to the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise as "the-tragedy of darth-vader".
prior to releasing the-original-film, and made possible by the-original-film success, lucas planned "three-trilogies of nine-films."
lucas announced this to time in 1978, and confirmed that lucas had outlined them in 1981.
however, after beginning work on the-sequel-trilogy, lucas insisted that star-wars was meant to be a-six-part-series and that there would be no-sequel-trilogy.
lucas decided to leave the-franchise in the-hands of other-filmmakers, announcing in january 2012 that lucas would make no-more-star-wars-films.
in october of that-year, the-walt-disney-company agreed to buy lucasfilm and announced that episode-vii would be released in 2015.
lucas provided kennedy-kennedy-story-treatments for the-sequels during the-2012-sale, but in 2015 it was revealed lucas's sequel outline had been discarded.
the-force-awakens was released on december 16, 2015, episode viii:
the-last-jedi on december 13, 2017, and episode-ix:
the-rise of skywalker on december 18, 2019, in many-countries.
focused on how the-rebels obtained the death star plans introduced in the-1977-film, the-first-anthology-film, rogue one: a-star-wars-story, was released on december 16, 2016, to favorable-reviews-and-box-office-success.
the first, the-mandalorian, premiered on november 12, 2019.
star-wars won the-2020-webby-award for television & film in the-category-social.
the-star-wars-canon-fictional-universe spans multiple-eras, of which three are focused around each of the-film trilogies.
the-following-eras were defined in january 2021:
it includes the-mandalorian and it spin-off-series,
expanded universe of spin-off-media depicts different-levels of continuity, which were deemed non-canonical and rebranded as legends on april 25, 2014, to make most-subsequent-works align to the-episodic-films, the clone wars film, and television series.
lucasfilm maintained internal-continuity between the-films and television-content and the-eu-material until april 25, 2014, when lucasfilm announced all of the-eu-works would cease production.
existing-works would no longer be considered canon to the-franchise and subsequent-reprints would be rebranded under the-star-wars-legends-label, with downloadable-content for the-massively-multiplayer-online-game
star-wars in print predates the-release of the-first-film, with the-december-1976-novelization of star-wars, initially subtitled "from the-adventures of luke-skywalker".
credited to lucas, star-wars in print was ghostwritten by alan-dean-foster.
the-first-"expanded-universe"-story appeared in marvel comics' star wars #7 in january 1978 (the first six issues being an-adaptation of the-film), followed by foster's-sequel-novel-splinter of the-mind's-eye the following month.
timothy-zahn's-bestselling-thrawn-trilogy (1991–1993) reignited interest in the-franchise and introduced the-popular-characters grand-admiral-thrawn, mara-jade, talon-karrde, and gilad-pellaeon.
star-wars: empire (2002–2006), and knights of the-old-republic (2006–2010).after-disney's-acquisition of lucasfilm, lucasfilm was announced in january 2014 that in 2015 the star-wars comics license would return to marvel-comics, whose-parent-company, marvel-entertainment, disney had purchased in 2009.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
for the-nine-episodic-films; john-williams has stated that john-williams will retire from the-franchise with the-rise of skywalker.
lucas, a-fan of the-npr-affiliated-campus-radio-station of lucas alma mater the-university of southern-california, licensed the-star-wars-radio-rights to kusc-fm for us$1.
lucasfilm founded lucasfilm own video game company in 1982, becoming best known for adventure-games and world-war-ii-flight-combat-games, but as george-lucas took more-interest in the-increasing-success of the-video-game-market, george-lucas wanted to have more-creative-control over the-games and founded george-lucas own development company, lucasarts.
in 1993, lucasarts released star-wars: x-wing, the first self-published star-wars video game and the-first-space-flight-simulator based on the-franchise.
disney partnered with lenovo to create the-augmented-reality-video-game jedi-challenges, released in november 2017.
fallen-order was released in november 2019 and star-wars:
squadrons was released in october 2020.
the-force unleashed (2008–2010) was a-similar-project set between revenge of the-sith and a-new-hope that included a-novel, a-2008-video-game and the-sith 2010 sequel, a-graphic-novel, a-role-playing-game-supplement, and toys.
the-success of the-star-wars-films led the-franchise to become one of the-most-merchandised-franchises in the-world.
while filming the-original-1977-film, george-lucas decided to take a-$500,000-pay-cut to george-lucas salary as director in exchange for full-ownership of the-franchise's-merchandising-rights.
star-wars was the-first-intellectual-property to be licensed in lego-history.
star-wars features elements such as knighthood, chivalry, and jungian archetypes such as "the-shadow".
george-lucas has said that the-theme of the-saga is redemption.
political-science has been an-important-element of star-wars since the-franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a-struggle between democracy and dictatorship.
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler; this was condensed into one-character in the-form of darth-vader's.
lucas has also drawn parallels to historical-dictators such as julius-caesar, napoleon-bonaparte, and politicians like richard-nixon.
the-franchise helped fox to change from an-almost-bankrupt-production-company to a-thriving-media-conglomerate.
star-wars fundamentally changed the-aesthetics and narratives of hollywood-films, switching the-focus of hollywood-made-films from deep,-meaningful-stories based on dramatic-conflict, themes and irony to sprawling-special-effects-laden-blockbusters, as well as changing the-hollywood-film-industry in fundamental-ways.
the-commercial-success of star-wars created a-boom in state-of-the-art special effects in the-late-1970s.
along with jaws, star-wars started the-tradition of the-summer-blockbuster-film in the-entertainment-industry, where films open on many-screens at the-same-time and profitable-franchises are important.
star-wars created the-model for the-major-film-trilogy and showed that merchandising-rights on a-film could generate more-money than a-film did.
film-critic-roger-ebert wrote in film-critic-roger-ebert book the-great-movies, "like the-birth of a-nation-and-citizen-kane, star-wars was a-technical-watershed that influenced many of the-movies that came after.
the-film was one of the-first-films to link genres together to invent a-new,-high-concept-genre for filmmakers to build upon.
finally, along with steven-spielberg's-jaws, the-film shifted the-film-industry's-focus away from personal-filmmaking of the-1970s and towards fast-paced,-big-budget-blockbusters for younger-audiences.
some-critics have blamed star-wars and jaws for "ruining" hollywood by shifting hollywood focus from "sophisticated"-films such as the-godfather, taxi-driver, and annie-hall to films about spectacle and juvenile-fantasy, and for the-industry-shift from stand-alone, one and done films, towards blockbuster-franchises with multiple-sequels and prequels.
one-such-critic, peter-biskind, complained, "when all was said and done, lucas and steven-spielberg's returned the-1970s-audience, grown sophisticated on a-diet of european-and-new-hollywood-films, to the-simplicities of the-pre-1960s-golden-age of movies...
lucas and spielberg marched backward through the-looking-glass.
" in an-opposing-view, tom-shone wrote that through star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all: star-wars and jaws, lucas and spielberg "didn't betray cinema at all plugged it back into the-grid, returning the-medium to it roots as a-carnival-sideshow, a-magic-act, one-big-special-effect", which was "a-kind of rebirth".
numerous-filmmakers have been influenced by star-wars, including damon-lindelof, dean-devlin, roland-emmerich, john-lasseter, david-fincher, joss-whedon, john-singleton, kevin-smith, and later star-wars directors j. j. abrams and gareth-edwards.
christopher-nolan cited star-wars as an-influence when making the-2010-blockbuster-film inception.
star-wars and philosophy.
star-wars and history.
october 2005.
star-wars on wookieepedia, a star-wars wiki star-wars map - 2020 official; hirez;
fallen-order was released for windows, playstation 4, and xbox one on november 15, 2019.
the-game was announced during e3 2018, with a-more-detailed-reveal during the-star-wars-celebration in april 2019.
the-game received generally-favorable-reviews from critics and sold more-than-ten-million-copies by the-end of march 2020.
the-game can only be saved at checkpoints, which appear as "meditation-circles".
the-game follows jedi-padawan-cal-kestis (cameron-monaghan) as jedi-padawan-cal-kestis (cameron-monaghan) is being hunted by the-second-sister (elizabeth-grullón) and her-partner, the-ninth-sister (misty-lee), both trained by the-sith-lord-darth-vader (scott-lawrence) as part of the-imperial-inquisitors-program.
the-game was created with unreal-engine 4.
publisher-electronic-arts announced the-game at e3 2018.
it was released for microsoft-windows, playstation 4, and xbox one on november 15, 2019, a month before the-theatrical-release of star-wars:
a-stadia-version was released november 24, 2020 to positive-reception in regards to performance over cloud-gaming.
the-game was released in two-editions; a-standard-edition, and a-deluxe-edition.
on january 12, 2021, a-free-update was released that-improved-performance when running the-game with backwards-compatibility on playstation 5 and xbox-series x/s. ===
fallen-order – dark-temple, was announced on june 11, 2019 for release in september 2019.
fallen order on november 20, 2019.hasbro also produced three-figures in the-star-wars:
fallen-order had the-fastest-selling-digital-launch for any-star-wars-game within star-wars first two weeks on sale.
the-game sold more-than-8-million-copies by the-end of january 2020, exceeding ea's-expectations.
more-than-10-million-units were sold by march 31, 2020.
a-series of epic-space-opera-films written and directed by george-lucas was produced by lucasfilm-ltd. and distributed by 20th-century-fox.
lucas had planned a-prequel-trilogy (as well as a-sequel-trilogy) before the-release of the-original-film, but halted major-star-wars-films beyond the-original-trilogy by 1981.
with the-subsequent-advances of computer-generated-imagery, lucas revived plans for the-prequels by the-early-1990s.
in 1980, lucas confirmed that lucas had the-nine-film-series plotted, but due to the-stress of producing the-original-trilogy and pressure from lucas wife to settle down, lucas had decided to cancel further-sequels by 1981.
however, technical-advances in the-late-1980s and early-1990s, including the-ability to create computer-generated-imagery (cgi), inspired lucas to consider that it might be possible to revisit lucas saga.
in 1989, lucas stated that the-prequel-trilogy would be "unbelievably expensive."
after viewing an-early-cgi-test created by industrial-light & magic for jurassic-park, lucas said: we did a-test for steven-spielberg; and when we put them up on the-screen i had tears in my-eyes.
in 1992, lucas acknowledged that lucas had plans to create the-prequel-trilogy in the lucasfilm fan club magazine, and announced this to variety in late 1993.
lucas was considered until at least 1995, but as time went on, lucas continued writing the-screenplays himself.
before lucas chose to direct the-prequels, return of the-jedi-director-richard-marquand expressed interest on directing one of the-prequel-films, up until lucas death in 1987.
the-popularity of the-franchise had been prolonged by the-star-wars-expanded-universe, so that the-popularity of the-franchise still had a-large-audience.
the-prequels were originally planned to fill in history tangential to the-original-trilogy, but lucas realized that the-prequels could form the-first-half of one-long-story focusing on anakin.
in 1994, lucas began writing the-screenplay for the-first-prequel, initially titled episode i: the-beginning.
following the-film's-release, lucas announced that lucas would be directing the next two.
the-first-draft of episode-ii was completed just weeks before principal-photography, and lucas hired jonathan-hales, a-writer from the-young-indiana-jones-chronicles, to polish the-first-draft of episode-ii.
unsure of a-title, lucas had jokingly called the-film "jar-jar's-great-adventure".
in writing the-empire strikes back, lucas initially considered that lando-calrissian was a-clone from a-planet of clones which caused the-clone-wars mentioned in a-new-hope.
lucas originally told concept-artists that the-earlier-film would open with a-montage of the-clone-wars, and included a-scene of palpatine revealing to anakin that palpatine had willed palpatine conception through the-force.
lucas reviewed and radically reorganized the-plot, having anakin execute dooku in the-first-act to foreshadow
after principal-photography was completed in 2003, lucas made more-changes, rewriting anakin's-arc.
lucas would now primarily turn to the-dark-side in a-quest to save padmé, rather than just believing that the-jedi are plotting to take over the-republic.
lucas made a-conscious-effort to parallel scenes and dialogue between the-prequel and original-trilogy, especially concerning the-journey of anakin-skywalker in the-prequels and that of lucas son luke in the-older-films.
together with the-original-trilogy, lucas has collectively referred to the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise as "the-tragedy of darth-vader".
according to lucas, the-correct-order to watch the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise is by episode-order.
political-science has been an-important-element of star-wars since the-franchise launched in 1977, focusing on a-struggle between democracy and dictatorship.
lucas has also drawn parallels between palpatine and historical-dictators such as julius-caesar and napoleon-bonaparte, as well as former-president of the-united-states richard-nixon.
lucas has called the-choice clever, as the-choice illustrates the-halt of technological-innovation in a-time-period of civil-war.
lucas has responded to the-negative-criticism by saying that, like the-original-films, the-original-films were intended "for 12-year-olds"—while acknowledging that fans who saw the-originals when the-original-films were young had different-expectations as adults.
additionally, the-animated-the-clone-wars-series, which lucas made with animation-artist-dave-filoni, has been noted to have retroactively improved the-perception of the-prequel-trilogy among fans.
in the-story, set in the-star-wars-legends expanded-universe, players assume the-role of rc-1138 ("boss"), an-elite-clone-trooper, known as "clone-commando", and the-leader of the-special-ops-unit delta-squad, consisting of three-fellow-clone-commandos with distinctive-personalities and character-traits: rc-1262 ("scorch"), rc-1140
the-game was made available on xbox one via backward-compatibility on april 16, 2018.
the-game by aspyr is set to release for the-nintendo-switch and playstation 4 on april 6, 2021.
the-game features some-gameplay-elements that resemble features in other-first-person-shooters.
therefore, the-game is only truly over when the-player and all-members of the-squad are incapacitated at once or if the-player is downed in a-position the-player and all-members of the-squad squadmates cannot reach (such as chasms).
the-game is set during the-events of the-clone-wars that started at the-climax of the-movie star-wars:
following a-montage that briefly details delta-squad's-creation, early-life, and training at the-cloning-facilities on kamino, the-game begins with the-team being deployed into the-front-lines of the-battle of geonosis at the-onset of the-clone-wars.
of note is the-"vode-an"-theme, which plays in the-main-menu and several-key-points throughout the-game (such as when the-player's-clone-commandos defeats a-large-group of enemies).
a-sequel to the-game was already planned well ahead of production of republic-commando.
the-game was titled star wars: imperial-commando and was based on the-betrayal of republic-soldiers, however the-project only went as far as concept-art and was cancelled.
delta-squad made a-brief-appearance in "witches of the-mist," a season three episode of the-animated-series star-wars: the-clone-wars; the-series'-supervising-director-dave-filoni stated that the-series'-supervising-director-dave-filoni took inspiration from the-game when creating the-world of the-show.
the-concept of republic-commandos (also known as clone-commandos) first seen in the-game has been featured in several-star-wars works since republic-commando's-release.
the-episode "missing in action" of the-fifth-season of the-clone-wars introduces the-character of captain-gregor, a-former-clone-commando suffering from amnesia.
original-motion-picture-soundtrack was released in both-digital-formats and digipak-cd by walt-disney-records on december 18 and 20, 2019 respectively.
original-motion-picture-soundtrack is john-williams-final-soundtrack for the-franchise; shortly before the-sessions began, john-williams announced that john-williams would be retiring from star-wars after over-40-years as original-motion-picture-soundtrack musical heart.
on january 10, 2018, it was confirmed that john-williams would return to compose and conduct the-rise of skywalker.
the-final-day of recording occurred on november 18, 2019 with many of the-cast and executives present, such as star-wars-actors-mark-hamill, daisy-ridley, kelly-marie-tran and frequent-collaborator-steven-spielberg.
your-consideration-soundtrack-album was released on the-disney-awards-website on december 10, 2019, which consisted of 50-minutes of the-music for the-film.
however, due to reasons unknown, the-film was taken down shortly after.
created by gene-roddenberry, the-science-fiction-television-series star-trek (which eventually acquired the retronym star-trek: the-original-series) starred william-shatner as captain-james-t.-kirk, leonard-nimoy as mr.-spock, and deforest-kelley as dr.-leonard-"bones"
the-series originally aired from september 1966 through june 1969 on nbc.this is the-first-television-series in the-star-trek-franchise, and comprises 79-regular-episodes over the-series'-three-seasons, along with the-original-series) original-pilot-episode, "the-cage".
after the-series'-cancellation, paramount-television released star-trek to television-stations as a-syndication-package, where the-series'-popularity grew to become a-"major-phenomenon within popular-culture".
the-remastered-episodes began with "balance of terror" (along with, in some-markets, "miri") during the-weekend of september 16, 2006, and ended with "the-cage", which aired during the-weekend of may 2, 2009.
star-trek's-pilot-episode, "the-cage", was completed between november 1964 and january 1965, and starred jeffrey-hunter as captain-christopher-pike, majel-barrett as number one, and leonard-nimoy as spock.
jeffrey-hunter chose to withdraw from the-role of pike when creator-gene-roddenberry was asked to produce a-second-pilot-episode ("where no-man has gone before") of which a slightly (but not significantly) edited version of the-same-name aired in 1966 as the-third-episode of the-new-series.
on october 15, 1988, paramount-pictures aired a-two-hour-television-special, hosted by patrick-stewart, called the star trek saga:
in the-united-states, ""the-cage"" was first released to dvd in december 2001.
it was later included on the-final-disc in both-the-original-and-"remastered"-season-3-dvd-box-sets (listed with the-original-air-date of october 15,
season 1 (1966–1967) ===
after roddenberry's-second-pilot-episode, "where no-man has gone before", received a-more-favorable-response from nbc, star-trek finally aired its-first-episode—"the-man trap"—at 8:30pm on september 8, 1966.
first season comprised 29-episodes, including the-two-part-episode "the-menagerie", which includes almost all of the-footage from the-original-pilot, "the-cage".
season 2 (1967–1968) ===
the-show's-26-episode-second-season began in september 1967 with "amok-time", which introduced actor-walter-koenig as russian-navigator-pavel-chekov, and granted viewers the-first-glimpse of spock's-homeworld, vulcan.
season 3 (1968–1969) ===
trek-final,-24-episode-season began in september 1968 with "spock's-brain".
the-last-episode of the-prequel-series star-trek:-enterprise, "turnabout-intruder", aired on june 3, 1969, but star-trek would eventually return to television in animated-form when the animated star-trek debuted in september 1973.
star-trek was first-broadcast in the-united-kingdom on bbc-one starting on july 12, 1969, with the-episode "where no-man has gone before".
the-first-episode broadcast in color was "arena" on november 15, 1969.
the-episodes were broadcast in a-different-order than in the-united-states and were originally aired in four-seasons between 1969 and 1971.
the-cage" was first broadcast on sky one in july 1990.
three-episodes, "plato's-stepchildren", "the-empath", and "whom gods destroy", were not broadcast on the-bbc until 1994, although "the-empath" was listed in the-radio-times as scheduled to broadcast on december 16, 1970, at 7:20-pm.
the-original-series at imdb
the-original-series at memory-alpha (a-star-trek-wiki)
star-wars is an-american-epic-space-opera-media-franchise, centered on a-film-series created by george-lucas that includes star-wars (1977), the-empire strikes back (1980), and return of the-jedi (1983).
the-original-series at memory-alpha (a-star-trek-wiki) depicts the-adventures of various-characters "a long time ago in a-galaxy far, far away".
in october 2012, the-walt-disney-company acquired lucasfilm for $4.06 billion.
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-expanded-universe-material as star-wars-legends and declared lucasfilm non-canon to the-franchise.
a-new-dawn by john-jackson-miller, published in september 2014.this is a-list of original-novels, novel-adaptations, original-junior-novels, junior novel-adaptations, young-readers, and short-stories in the-star-wars-franchise.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1976), by alan-dean-foster as george-lucas (0 bby-0-aby)
the-clone-wars, star-wars-rebels, and star-wars-resistance, as well as any-books, comics, and video-games published after april 2014.
this-body of work represents the-original-star-wars expanded universe, which was rebranded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.
a-new-hope ====
in 2017, a-new-hope was also released as a-big-golden-book.
a-new-hope ===
star-wars (1983–88) –
star-wars (1987) – famicom
star-wars (1991–93) – nes, game-boy, master-system, game gear super star-wars (1992) –
star-wars: battlefront-ii (2005) – playstation 2, windows, xbox, playstation-portable star-wars battlefront: renegade-squadron (2007) – playstation-portable star-wars battlefront: elite-squadron (2009) – playstation-portable, nintendo ds
star-wars: card-trader (2015) – card-trading-vader-immortal (2019) – oculus-rift, oculus-quest, playstation vr star-wars jedi:
star-wars by stern-pinball
a-new-hope (2013)
star-wars: resistance star-wars pinball:
star-wars gamekey (expansion)
star-wars: heroes-path (2015) – ios star-wars rebels: recon-missions (2015) –
star-wars (2014-2019):
season one (2014)
season two (2015)list of events: universe (2016) - sponsored by rogue one: a-star-wars-story-space-battle (2017) - sponsored by star-wars:
season two not only included free-items, but was also featured on the-promotional-material of the-billboards in the-maps of two-pre-existing-games on the-platform, and also included the-limited-time-branding on the-games’-respective-thumbnails.
star-wars (2020):
adds star-wars-maps, quests, mobs, skins, items and vehicles from the-original-trilogy and the-mandalorian into the-game.
however, in late 2016, all-dlc in soulcalibur-iv was removed from the-playstation-and-microsoft-stores due to licensing from the-purchase of star-wars by disney.
star-wars 1313 (2013)
daisy-jazz-isobel-ridley (born 10 april 1992) is an-english-actress who rose to international-prominence through playing the-role of rey in the-star-wars
career == === 2013–2015: early-roles and star-wars breakthrough
ridley also appeared in the-music-video for wiley's-song "lights on", playing the-character of kim.
in april 2014, the-casting of ridley as rey, one of the-lead-characters in the-force-awakens, was announced.
ridley was cast for the-british-comedy-film in february 2014.
her-choice by director-j.-j.-abrams was seen as a-repeat of george-lucas'-move of casting relatively-unknown-actors for the-lead-roles in the-first-star-wars-film in 1977.ridley began filming her-scenes in may 2014 at pinewood-studios in buckinghamshire, and prior to the-film's-release in december 2015, her appeared at the-launch of a-set of star-wars-postage-stamps issued by the-uk-postal-service royal-mail, with her-character rey featuring on a-stamp along with the-droid bb-8.
star-wars sequel trilogy and other-projects ===
ridley became executive-producer of the-documentary the-eagle-huntress in january 2016, which premiered at the-sundance-film-festival on 24 january 2016; ridley also recorded narration for the-film's-wide-release.
along with anne-hathaway, ridley and barbra-streisand's perform the-song "at the-ballet" from a-chorus-line, with ridley performing the-role of bebe, one of a-trio of dancers hoping to be cast in a-forthcoming-show.
directed by and starring kenneth-branagh, production began in london in november 2016.
the-last-jedi, which was released in december 2017.in january 2018, ridley starred in the-titular-role in ophelia, a-reimagining of the-hamlet-tale, alongside naomi-watts and clive-owen.
the-project was filmed from april to july 2017 and debuted at the-2018-sundance-film-festival.
in february 2018, ridley voiced the-role of cottontail in peter-rabbit, an-adaptation of the-children's-stories of the-same-name by beatrix-potter.
in december 2019, ridley appeared as rey in star-wars:
in 2021, ridley co-starred in the-film chaos-walking, an-adaption of the-young-adult-novel by patrick-ness.
the-film was released on march 5, 2021.
the-film had been delayed occasionally due to poor-test-screenings that followed the-film's reshoots, and later due to the-covid-19-pandemic.
according to tartakovsky, george-lucas initially pitched grievous to george-lucas and george-lucas crew as "this-ruthless,-totally-capable-jedi-killer," but later developed george-lucas into "one of those-old-b-serial-villains who does something bad ... twirls george-lucas mustache
and then george-lucas runs off. "
george-lucas was given a-cough in revenge of the-sith, intended to emphasize george-lucas organic nature as well as the-flaws of having cyborg-prosthetics.
george-lucas-depiction in clone-wars lacked a-cough until the-concluding-episode, in which mace-windu-force-crushes the-chestplate housing-grievous's-internal-organs; this was intended to create continuity with the-film and was mentioned in the-film novelization.
the-character-designer for the-latter-series attempted to translate aspects of the-character-designs from the-2d-series to 3d.-clone-trooper-alpha from the-older-series was considered for the-newer-series, but lucas thought too-many-characters had names beginning with the-letter-a, leading to the-creation of captain-rex.
production ==
season 1 (2003) ===
season 1 (2003) === consisted of 10-episodes, lasting three-minutes each.
along with the-second-season, season 1 (2003) === was released on dvd as volume one.
season 2 (2004) ===
season 3 (2005) ===
according to the-review-aggregator-website rotten-tomatoes, 80% of critics have given season 1 a-positive-review based on 5-reviews.
on april 2, 2021.
the-alliance was first featured as the-main-protagonist-faction in the-films star-wars (1977),
the-disney-series-rebels depicts the-development of the-rebellion against the-galactic-empire beginning five years before a-new-hope (5-bby) and fourteen years after the-fall of the-galactic-republic and the-jedi-order in revenge of the-sith (19 bby).
and a-new-hope (0-bby) was commanded by general-jan-dodonna.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977)
jake-lloyd and hayden-christensen played the-character in the-prequel-trilogy in the-first-and-next-two-films, respectively, and the latter also replaced shaw as anakin's-spirit with the-2004-re-release of return of the-jedi.
various-combinations of names for the-character were built upon the-phrase "dark-water".
then lucas "added lots of last-names, vaders and wilsons and smiths, and [he] just came up with the-combination of darth and vader.
after the-release of the empire strikes back (1980), lucas said the-name-vader was based upon the-german/dutch-language-homophone-vater or vader, meaning 'father', making the-name-representative of a-"dark-father".
anakin and luke's-original-surname "starkiller" remained in the-script until a-few-months into filming star-wars, when it was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson and replaced with "skywalker".
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler.
back, lucas condensed this into one-character in the-form of darth-vader.
after the-success of the-original-star-wars (1977), lucas hired science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett to write the-sequel with science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett.
they held story-conferences and, by late-november 1977, lucas had produced a-handwritten-treatment.
lucas was disappointed with the-script, but science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett died of cancer before science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett could discuss it with science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett.
with no-writer available, lucas wrote the-next-draft himself.
in this-draft, dated april 1, 1978, he made use of a-new-plot-twist: vader claiming to be luke's-father.
lucas has said that lucas knew vader was luke's-father while writing the-first-film, though the-relationship is not evidenced before said-draft of the empire strikes back.
author-michael-kaminski argues in the-secret-history of star-wars that it is unlikely that the-plot-point had ever seriously been considered or even conceived of before 1978, and that the-first-film was clearly operating under a-storyline where vader was a-separate-character from luke's-father.
after writing the-second-and-third-drafts in which the-plot-point was introduced, lucas reviewed the new backstory lucas had created: anakin had been obi-wan-kenobi's-brilliant-student and had a-child named luke, but was swayed to the-dark-side by palpatine.
after deciding to create the-prequel-trilogy, lucas indicated that the-story-arc would be a-tragic-one depicting anakin's-fall to the-dark-side.
for the-first-prequel,-episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), lucas made anakin nine years old to make the-character's-separation from anakin mother more poignant.
lucas states in an-interview recorded around the-time of the-third-prequel, revenge of the-sith (2005), that "anakin is the chosen one.
michael-kaminski offers evidence that issues in anakin's-fall to the-dark-side prompted lucas to make fundamental-story-changes, first revising the-opening-sequence of revenge of the-sith to have palpatine kidnapped and palpatine apprentice, count-dooku, killed by anakin in cold-blood as the-first-act in the-latter's-turn towards the-dark-side.
after principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas re-wrote anakin's-turn to the-dark-side; anakin's-fall from grace would now be motivated by a-desire to save michael-kaminski-wife, padmé-amidala, rather than the-previous-version in which that-reason was one of several, including that michael-kaminski genuinely believed that the-jedi were plotting to take over the-republic.
dave-filoni said that giving anakin-responsibility for a-padawan was meant to place the-character in a-role that forced the-character to become more cautious and responsible.
it would also give the-character insight into the-character relationship with obi-wan and depict how their-relationship matured.
the-idea that darth-vader's should wear a-breathing-apparatus was first proposed by concept-artist-ralph-mcquarrie during preproduction-discussions for star-wars with george-lucas in 1975.
lucas agreed, and mcquarrie combined a-full-face-breathing-mask with a-samurai-helmet, thus creating one of the-most-iconic-designs of space-fantasy-cinema.
at 6-ft 6 in (1.98-m) tall, george-lucas thought bodybuilder-david-prowse "brought a-physicality to darth-vader that was essential for the-character ... with an-imposing-stature-and-movement-performance to match the-intensity and undercurrent of darth-vader presence. "
george-lucas chose to have a-different-actor be the-voice of darth-vader, since bodybuilder-david-prowse had a-strong-west-country-english-accent that led the-rest of the-cast to nickname him "darth farmer".
george-lucas originally intended for orson-welles to voice darth-vader, but after deciding that orson-welles's voice would be too recognizable, him cast the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones instead.
when jones was specifically asked if jones had supplied vader's-voice for revenge of the-sith—either newly or from a-previous-recording—jones answered, "you'd have to ask lucas about that.
during the-production of revenge of the-sith, hayden-christensen asked lucas if a-special-vader-suit could be constructed to fit vader-own-body, rather than have a-different-actor don one of the-original-sets of vader-armor worn by prowse.
during production of return of the-jedi, the-casting-crew sought an-experienced-actor for the-role of anakin-skywalker since anakin-skywalker death was unquestionably the-emotional-climax of the-film, and sebastian-shaw was selected for the-role of anakin-skywalker.
lucas personally directed shaw for lucas appearance in the-final-scene of the-film, in which lucas is a-force-ghost of anakin.
when the-phantom-menace was being produced, hundreds of actors were tested for the-role of young-anakin before the-producers settled on jake-lloyd, who lucas considered met he-requirements of "a-good-actor, enthusiastic and very energetic".
during production of attack of the-clones, casting director-robin-gurland reviewed about-1,500-other-candidates for the-role of the-young-anakin before lucas eventually selected hayden-christensen for the-role.
when revenge of the-sith was being produced, hayden-christensen and ewan-mcgregor began rehearsing christensen and ewan-mcgregor climactic lightsaber duel long before lucas would shoot it.
darth-vader first appears in star-wars as a-ruthless-cyborg-sith-lord serving the-galactic-empire.
i – the-phantom-menace, which takes place 32 years before a-new-hope ,
the-film also reveals that the-voice which ren perceived coming from vader's-helmet in the-force-awakens was generated by emperor-palpatine.
an-image of a-deleted-scene featuring vader was revealed in february 2021 by industrial-light-&-magic-visual-effects-animator-hal-hickel, who added that vader was supposed to have a-conversation with tarkin in that-scene.
on december 10, 2020, during a-disney-investor-event, it was announced that hayden-christensen would return as vader in the upcoming disney+
the-game, titled vader immortal, had three-episodes overall, set between revenge of the-sith and rogue one; the first became available with the-launch of oculus-quest, while the-last-episode was released on november 21, 2019.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
in boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), vader hires fett a few years before the-events of a-new-hope.
(2002–2005) spans from about a year before a-new-hope to several-months afterwards.
darth-vader and anakin-skywalker have appeared in a-number of star-wars since the-earliest-days of the-franchise, though rarely as a-playable-character.
in the-story, vader colludes with boba-fett to entrap the-rebels.
george-lucas felt hurt at such-accusations.
the-character of dark-mayhem in the-thundermans is also a-parody of vader, especially in the-character of dark-mayhem in the-thundermans original depiction.
in january 2007, jon-stewart put on a-vader-helmet to address us-vice-president-dick-cheney as a-"kindred-spirit" on the-daily-show.
cheney's-wife, lynne, presented stewart with a-darth-vader-action-figure on stewart october 2007 appearance on the-show.
at a-presidential-campaign-event in september 2007, hillary-clinton also referred to cheney as vader.
in 2009, george-lucas stated that cheney is more akin to palpatine, and that a-better-stand-in for vader would be george-w.-bush.
on december 2, 2020, a-figurine of darth-vader appeared on the-plinth where the-statue of edward-colston once stood in bristol, united-kingdom, in what was seen as a-tribute to the-actor david-prowse, who died on november 29, 2020.
star-wars is a-media-franchise and shared-fictional-universe that is the-setting of science-fiction-films produced by lucasfilm, based on characters created by george-lucas.
the-skywalker-saga of the-franchise includes nine-films, featuring three-trilogies; the-original-trilogy, the-prequel-trilogy, and the-sequel-trilogy.
the-original-trilogy began with a-new-hope in 1977, followed by the empire strikes back (1980) and return of the-jedi (1983), while the-prequel-trilogy consists of the-phantom-menace (1999), attack of the-clones (2002), and revenge of the-sith (2005).
other-cast-members who recur across multiple-films and series within the-franchise include kenny-baker, ahmed-best, silas-carson, oliver-ford-davies, warwick-davis, alec-guinness, oscar-isaac, samuel-l.-jackson, james-earl-jones, denis-lawson, christopher-lee, peter-mayhew, ian-mcdiarmid, frank-oz, david-prowse, tim-rose, jimmy-smits, joonas-suotamo, jimmy-vee, and matthew-wood.
an-empty,-dark-grey-cell indicates the-character was not in the-film, or that the-character's official presence has not yet been confirmed.
o indicates the-character appears in other-films outside the-skywalker-saga.
ts indicates the-character appears in a-television-series.
tf indicates the-character appears in a-television-film.
an-empty,-dark-grey-cell indicates the-character was not in the-film, or that the-character's official presence has not yet been confirmed.
ts indicates the-character appears in a-television-series.
tf indicates the-character appears in a-television-film.
marvel-comics launched an-eponymous-series in 1977 which began with a-six-issue-comic-adaptation of the-1977-film star-wars and ran for 107-issues, included an-adaptation of the empire strikes back.
following the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, in january 2014, the-october-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company was announced that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015 (disney having previously purchased marvel-entertainment and the marvel-comics brand and publishing in 2009).
in april 2014, lucasfilm rebranded the-majority of the-star-wars expanded universe as legends, only keeping the-theatrical-skywalker-saga and the-2008-clone-wars-theatrical-film-and-television-series as canon.
publisher-stan-lee initially declined to consider such-a-proposal until the-film was completed, and was only persuaded otherwise in a-second-meeting arranged by roy-thomas, who wanted to edit the-series.
thomas and artist-howard-chaykin adapted the-events of the-original-film in issues #1–6 of star-wars, with the-first-issue released for sale on april 12, 1977.
#39–44 (september 1980 – february 1981).
star-wars-weekly-#1 was published with a-free-cut-out-x-wing-fighter on february 8, 1978.
back-weekly from issue #118 in may 1980, and then became a-monthly-title from issue #140 in november 1980, reverting to the-title star-wars with issue #159 in july 1982.
the monthly comic ran until issue #171 in july 1983, when the-numbering was reset at #1 for return of the-jedi-weekly, which was the-first-time the-uk-comic had been printed in color.
marvel's-adaptation of return of the-jedi (october 1983 – january 1984) appeared in a-separate,-eponymous-four-issue-limited-series as well as in marvel super special #27 and in a-mass-market-paperback.
in 1978, pendulum-press, under pendulum-press educational series contemporary-motivators, also published a-31-page-loose-adaptation of star-wars by linda-a.-cadrain and charles-nicholas.
from october 1980 to february 1981, archie-goodwin and alcala adapted brian-daley's-han-solo at stars'-end (1979).in 1991, russ-cochran published a-2500-copy-limited-run of a-three-volume-hardcover-boxset of all of archie-goodwin and williamson's-star-wars-comic-strips from 1981 to 1984, signed by both-creators, and featuring new-cover-illustrations by the latter.
blackthorne-publishing released a-three-issue-series called star wars 3d from december 1987 to february 1988.
qui-gon & obi-wan ===== qui-gon & obi-wan: last-stand on ord-mantell is a-three-part-comics-series written by ryder-windham, published by dark-horse-comics between december 2000 and march 2001.
the-aurorient-express is a-two-part-comics-series written by mike-kennedy, and published by dark-horse-comics between february 2002 and june 2002.
1–5,-128-pages, october 2012
the-first-printed-issue was published on july 1, 2009.
in january 2010, star-wars: invasion-#0 was nominated for a-'diamond-gem-award' in the-'2009-comic-book of the-year over-$3.00'-category.
adapted by j.-w.-rinzler, dark-horse released dark-horse as an-eight-part-comic-book-series beginning in september 2013.
an-eight-part-comic-book-series beginning in september 2013 received mostly-positive-reviews.
following the-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company in 2012, the-walt-disney-company was announced in january 2014 that the-star-wars-comics-license would return to marvel-comics in 2015.
meanwhile, with the-sequel-film the-force awakens in production, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded as star-wars legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.early reports in may 2014 suggested that marvel would announce two new ongoing star-wars comic series at the-san-diego-comic-con.
in july 2014, marvel announced three-new-series at sdcc:
the-initial-series, star-wars, was released in january 2015, with darth-vader debuting in february.
the-ongoing-series star-wars: poe-dameron was announced in january 2016.
featuring x-wing-fighter-pilot-poe-dameron introduced in the force awakens, the-series debuted on april 6, 2016.
in august 2019, marvel announced that the-main-star-wars-series that started in 2015, which has narratively caught up to the-timeframe of the-events of the empire strikes back, would end in november 2019 with issue #75.
a-56-page-one-shot called star wars: empire ascendant, written by soule, greg-pak, simon-spurrier, and ethan-sacks, was released in december 2019 to wrap up the-series.
at new-york-comic-con in october 2019, lucasfilm and marvel announced the-main-star-wars-title would relaunch with a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020.
written by soule, a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020 will explore the-time between the empire strikes back and return of the-jedi.
a-new-ongoing-series beginning in january 2020 will expand on stories like how the-demoralized-ragtag-band of rebels grows into the-massive-fleet that attacks the-second-death-star , how the-plan to rescue han-solo from jabba the-hutt is formed, how leia balances leia personal desires to save han with leia responsibilities to the-rebellion, luke's-growth as a-jedi while coming to an-understanding of darth-vader's-reveal of darth-vader's-heritage, and the-evolution of lando-calrissian from selfish-betrayer to trusted general.
first announced as project-luminous at star-wars-celebration in april 2019, full-details of a-publishing-initiative called star wars: the-high-republic were revealed in a-press-conference in february 2020.
due to the-covid-19-pandemic, the-launch of the-high-republic was pushed to january 2021 with the-release-date of the-ongoing-comic-title yet to be revealed.
star-wars (2015) ====== ======
star-wars (2020) ====== ======
princess-leia released in march 2015.
several-other-limited-series followed, including kanan (april 2015 – march 2016), lando (july–october 2015), shattered-empire (september–october 2015),in 2017, limited series darth maul, mace windu, and captain phasma, as well as further one-shots, continued to expand the-star-wars-universe.
both-the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics ended the-poe-dameron and the-second-darth-vader-comics runs in 2018, in september and december respectively.
the-character had been introduced by zahn's-heir to the-empire-trilogy in the-early-1990s, now part of the-legends-line, and was re-introduced in the-new-canon in star-wars-rebels.
marvel announced in october 2018 that a-five-issue, wendig penned miniseries, star-wars: shadow of vader, would be released starting in january 2019.
in december 2018, a new miniseries with a-similar-premise, star wars: vader – dark-visions, was announced to be written by dennis-hopeless with art from paolo-villanelli and brian-level and was launched in march 2019.for 2019, marvel announced a-number of new-limited-series.
in may 2019, a-one-shot by writer-matthew-rosenberg and various-artists called star-wars #108 will pick up the-story of the original marvel star-wars comic run that ended in 1986.in-connection with the-forthcoming-video-game star-wars jedi:
the-rise of kylo-ren premiered on december 16, 2019.
at san-diego-comic-con 2018, marvel announced age of star-wars, a-27-issue-maxiseries starting in december 2018 that would span all-three-eras of the star-wars saga.
in mid-2014, marvel stated that marvel would publish collected-volumes of past-star-wars-comics, beginning with volume 1 of star-wars: the original marvel years in january 2015, and volume 1 of star-wars legends epic collection: the-empire in april 2015, which reprinted dark horse's star-wars comics.
in december 2019, marvel reprinted the-first-issue of the-1977-series as star wars #1 – facsimile-edition.
star-wars was released in april and may 2019, celebrating marvel's-80th-anniversary.
a second collection of true-believers: star-wars-titles was released in december 2019.
in september 2017, idw-publishing debuted star-wars-adventures, an-anthology-series published as part of the-"journey to star-wars: the-last-jedi"-publishing-program.
in january 2018, idw released a-five-issue-comic-tie-in to star-wars: forces of destiny.
in november 2018, idw released star-wars-adventures: destroyer down.
this-three-issue-miniseries reprinted the-previously-released-loot-crate special from december 2017.
star-wars (marvel) at the grand comics database
star-wars (dark-horse)
star-wars (2015–present-marvel-comics) at the-comic-book-db (archived from the original)
archived from the-original on october 30, 2017.
star-wars-creator-george-lucas, who had two-daughters, also wanted the-character to appeal to girls.
lucas renamed lucas after the-ancient-indian-emperor ashoka; the-spelling was then altered by screenwriter-henry-gilroy.
the-clone-wars-supervising-director and writer-dave-filoni imagined the-discovery that lucas has "the-right-stuff" to become a-jedi would be a-cause for celebration in lucas hometown.
ashley-eckstein, who primarily voiced ahsoka, said she and the-writers were aware that audiences initially found the-character annoying, and that there was a-"fine-line" between ahsoka being bratty and becoming endearing.
because production was a year ahead of what was broadcast, with ahsoka developing over that-time, eckstein implored fans to be patient with the-character's-growth.
filoni said this would be the-"normal"-arc and suggested to lucas that filoni instead remain expelled; lucas agreed.
lucas believed ahsoka survived order 66,
filoni, who served as executive-producer and co-creator of rebels, worked with lucas on identifying what ahsoka would know about anakin's-fate.
filoni cites fans'-passion for the-character as one-reason for ahsoka's-prominence in clone-wars and rebels.
eckstein said filoni wanted filoni to bring some of filoni own personality into the-ahsoka-character; eckstein told filoni that filoni actions and speech between audition takes had a-bigger-impact on filoni getting the-role than the-actual-audition.
once production on the-clone-wars began, it took about-six-months for eckstein and the-writers to understand ahsoka; consequently, much of the-dialogue for the-first-half of season
eckstein reprised the-role of ahsoka for rebels, although she did not do all of fulcrum's-voice-work.
filoni avoids giving the-actors plot-details that might inappropriately affect the-actors performance; for example, filoni did not tell eckstein whether ahsoka survives ahsoka duel with darth-vader lest eckstein telegraph something in ahsoka performance that the-character would not know.
during the-final-arc of season five, ahsoka is framed and imprisoned for a-deadly-explosion and a-subsequent-murder, both of which were committed by ahsoka friend barriss-offee.
filoni said ahsoka's-fate is ambiguous and "a bit open-ended" though eckstein believed the-character to still be alive.
the-mandalorian (2020) ====
in march 2020, rosario-dawson was reported to be appearing as the-character in the-second-season of the-mandalorian.
on november 27, 2020.
after the-mandalorian helps her-liberate-calidan, ahsoka tells bo-katan-kryze to take grogu to the-jedi-temple on tython, where bo-katan-kryze might be able to reach out to another-jedi through the-force.
in december 2020, lucasfilm announced ahsoka would be getting ahsoka own limited-series on disney+, titled ahsoka.
developed by jon-favreau and dave-filoni, it exists alongside the-mandalorian and rangers of the-new-republic through interconnected-stories culminating in a-"climactic-story-event".
== is a-young-adult-novel by e.-k.-johnston published in october 2016.
after her-introduction, some-critics called ahsoka annoying and predicted the-character would die before the-clone-wars-series ended because her does not appear in revenge of the-sith.
while only-the-feature-films and selected-other-works are considered canon to the-franchise since the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, some-canon-planets were first named or explored in works from the-non-canon-star-wars
the-name is somewhat of a-misnomer, as the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times have grown nearly as powerful as the-"core-worlds" themselves, though the-colonies – the-first-colonies founded by the-nascent-galactic-republic in ancient-times histories aren't quite as long or prestigious (i.e. comparable to how the-united-states or canada could be called "the colonies" of great-britain).
the-accompanying-works were declared non-canon by lucasfilm in april 2014, following the-accompanying-works acquisition by the-walt-disney-company in october 2012.
monsters and aliens from george-lucas (1993) contains a-feature, presented as a-clip from a-gossip-column, in which a-pair of duros are abducted by humans and taken to "urthha" (earth), where monsters and aliens from george-lucas (1993) create havoc by misunderstanding terrestrial-objects and food.
list of star-wars filming locations planets in science-fiction ==
in the-game touhou kishinjō ~ double-dealing-character,-sekibanki,
star-wars is a-2008-computer-animated-epic-space-opera-film directed by dave-filoni (in his-feature-directorial-debut), produced by lucasfilm-ltd. and lucasfilm-animation, and distributed by warner-bros.-pictures.
the-film introduces the-fan-favorite-characters of tano and captain-rex to the-franchise.
the-film received largely-negative-reviews, becoming the-worst-reviewed-theatrically-released-star-wars-film with critics panning the-writing, animation, tone, dialogue and the-decision to release the-pilot-episodes as a-feature-length-film, while praising the-action-scenes, visual-aspects, and voice-acting.
while the-film was a-commercial-success, grossing $68.3 million worldwide against an-$8.5-million-budget, the-film is also the-film.
the-events of the-film chronologically take place between the-clone-wars-season-1-episode "the-hidden-enemy" and the-season-3-episode "clone-cadets".
production == ===
george-lucas had the-idea for a-film after viewing some of the-completed-footage of the-early-episodes on the-big-screen.
warner-bros. had tracked the-series'-development from the-beginning, and george-lucas decided on a-theatrical-launch after viewing early-footage declaring "this is so beautiful, why don't we just go and use the-crew and make a-feature?"
lucas described the-film as "almost-an-afterthought."
at a-cartoon-network-hosted-discussion, lucas said lucas did not want the-clone-wars-film-or-television-series to look like such-movies as beowulf, because lucas wanted a-stylized-look rather than a realistic one.
lucas also felt it should not look like the-popular-pixar-movies such as the-incredibles, because lucas wanted the-film and characters to have it own unique-style.
lucas also decided to create the-animated-film and series from a-live-action-perspective, which winder said set it apart from other-cgi-films.
animators also reviewed designs from the-original-2003-clone-wars-series when creating the-animation-style for the-film and the-new-series.
the-clone-wars-merchandise was first released on july 26, 2008.
two of the-toys-"r"-us-flagship-outlets in mission-bay, san-diego and times-square in manhattan, new-york-city held costume-and-trivia-contests on july 26, and gave away limited-edition-star-wars-toys with every-purchase.
when questioned by the-new-york-times about star-wars-merchandising in july 2008, a-pepsi-spokesperson was unaware star-wars-film was being released.
topps, the-trading-cards-company, released a-series of 90-clone-wars-cards on july 26, which also included foil-cards, motion-cards, animation-cel-cards and rare-sketch-cards by top-star-wars-artists and lucasfilm-animators.
at the-american-international-toy-fair, lego announced a-product-line for the-film and the-tv-series, to be released in july 2008 in the-united-states and on august 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-lucasarts-video-game-developer adapted the-film into star-wars:
a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk said a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk expectations for jedi-alliance were low due to poor-clone-wars-movie-reviews, but a-reviewer from pocketgamer.co.uk found the-game "a-varied-and-well-paced-experience."
one-review claimed one-review improved upon a-darth-vader-mp3-player released in july 2008, which featured only-512-megabytes of memory and a-dated-visual-display.
a-novelization of the-film by karen-traviss was released by del-rey-books on july 26, 2008.
in addition to narrating the-film by karen-traviss's-plot from various-points of view, the-film by karen-traviss includes some of anakin's-memories of anakin early-childhood as a-hutt-slave, as well as some of dooku's-recollections of battling the-mandalorians (previously explored in the-2002-comic-book jango-fett: open-seasons).
the-film's-two-disc-dvd and blu-ray-disc was released on november 11, 2008 in the-united-states and on december 8, 2008 in the-united-kingdom.
the-film was released as a-single-disc-dvd, two-disc-special-edition-dvd, and blu-ray-disc.
the-standard-definition-versions include the-film in widescreen-format with dolby-digital-5.1-surround-ex-sound, and with feature-length-audio-commentary.
the-film is also available on the-disney+-streaming-service, which launched on november 12, 2019.
the-film was panned by critics.
on rotten-tomatoes, the-film has an-approval-rating of 18% based on 170-reviews, with an-average-rating of 4.2/10.
cool-news posted two-reviews of the-film during the-week before cool-news release, but pulled them down due to an-embargo placed on those attending the-screening
in his-review for entertainment-weekly, critic-owen-gleiberman gave the-film an-f-grade and wrote, "george-lucas is turning into the-enemy of fun."
the-clone-wars is to star-wars what-karaoke is to pop music.
the-main-criticism toward the-film was the-animation.
many criticized the-film as cheap, wooden, non-engaging and out-of-date; some-reviewers drew negative-comparisons to 1960s
marionette-based-shows thunderbirds and fireball-xl5, although george-lucas previously said the-animation-style was a-deliberate-homage to such-shows.
roger-ebert gave the-film 1.5-stars out of 4 and said "the-characters have hair that looks molded from play-doh, bodies that seem arthritic, and moving lips on half-frozen-faces—all signs that shortcuts were taken in the-animation-work."
the-film also earned $23,428,376 from dvd-sales in the-us.
the-film was nominated for a-golden-raspberry-award in the-category "worst-prequel, remake, rip-off or sequel", but lost to indiana-jones and the-kingdom of the-crystal-skull.
episode-iv – a-new-hope (1977).
principal-photography on the-film began at pinewood-studios, buckinghamshire, in early-august 2015 and wrapped in february 2016.
the-film then went through extensive-reshoots directed by gilroy in mid-2016.
with an-estimated-production-budget of at least $200 million, the-film is one of the-most-expensive-films ever made.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 10, 2016, and was released in the-united-states on december 16.
the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 10, 2016, and was released in the-united-states on december 16 received positive-reviews from critics, with praise for the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 10, 2016, and was released in the-united-states on december 16 acting, story, visuals, musical score, and dark tone, but criticism for the-film premiered in los-angeles on december 10, 2016, and was released in the-united-states on december 16 pacing, characters, and digital recreations of peter-cushing and carrie-fisher.
production == ===
in may 2014, disney announced gareth-edwards would direct the-film and gary-whitta would write the-script.
in january 2015, it was revealed gary-whitta had completed he work on the-script, and would no longer be with the-project.
in march 2015, the-title was announced.
edwards stated the-style of the-film would be similar to that of a-war-film, stating, "it's the-reality of war.
in may 2016, reports emerged the-film would undergo five-weeks of reshoots with tony-gilroy writing additional-scenes, as well as acting as a-second-unit-director under edwards.
with input from edwards, tony-gilroy oversaw the-edit and additional-photography of the-film which tackled several-issues, including the-ending.
in july 2016, discussing whether the-film would feature an-opening-crawl, kathleen-kennedy said, "we're in the-midst of talking about it, but i don't think these-[anthology]-films will have an-opening-crawl."
edwards explained "the-idea is the-film is supposed to be different than these-[anthology]-films," and that "the-film is born out of a-crawl. ...
in november 2016, kathleen-kennedy confirmed the-film would not feature an-opening-crawl, instead beginning in "a-way that is traditional, with just-the-title.
in january 2015, the-hollywood-reporter stated numerous-actresses, including tatiana-maslany, rooney-mara, and felicity-jones were being tested for the-film's-lead.
in february 2015, it was announced felicity-jones was in final-talks to star in the-film, while aaron-paul and édgar-ramírez were being eyed for the-male-lead-role.
in march 2015, felicity-jones was officially cast.
in march 2015, deadline-hollywood reported a-rumor that ben-mendelsohn was being considered for a-lead-role.
forest-whitaker was added to the-cast of the-film in june 2015.
in july 2015, jonathan-aris was cast to play senator-jebel.
principal-photography on the-film began at elstree-studios in hertfordshire on august 8, 2015.
much of principal-photography on the-film was completed at or near pinewood-studios at buckinghamshire, uk where huge-sets were built to complement scenes filmed elsewhere in the-world.
the-film was shot using ultra-panavision-70-lenses with arri-alexa 65-large-format digital 6k-cameras.
the-film spent an-estimated-total of $265 million and received a-$45.5-million-subsidy from the-united-kingdom's-film-incentive-program.
on february 11, 2016, disney-executives stated post-production === was "virtually completed".
post-production wrapped on november 28, 2016.
in march 2015, it was reported that alexandre-desplat, who had worked with edwards on godzilla, would compose the-score for rogue one.
but then, in september 2016, it was announced that michael-giacchino would be replacing desplat as composer, after the-film's-reshoots altered the-post-production-schedule, and reportedly left desplat no longer available.
michael-giacchino only had four-and-a-half-weeks to compose the-music for the-film, beginning almost immediately after finishing production on doctor-strange.
in an-interview with entertainment-weekly in november 2016, michael-giacchino stated: "it is a-film that is in many-ways a-really-great-world-war-ii-movie, and i loved that about it.
the-official-soundtrack was released by walt-disney-records on december 16, 2016.all-music was composed by giacchino except where noted.
rogue one premiered at the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles on december 10, 2016.
the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles was released in certain-european-countries on december 14, 2016, and was released in north-america on december 16, with china getting the-pantages-theatre in los-angeles on january 6, 2017.
impossible-–-rogue-nation in july 2015, because the-titles are similar.
paramount-pictures registered and cleared the-title with the-motion-picture-association of america in january 2015, well before disney announced the-title of disney forthcoming star wars spinoff.
a-teaser-trailer for rogue-one, released by lucasfilm on april 7, 2016, was praised by reviewers for disney-portrayal of strong-female-characters.
the-daily-telegraph described jyn-erso's-character as "a-roguish,-han-solo-style-heroine", calling the-film "progressive", while noting the-film painstaking faithfulness to the-production-design-style of the-original-star-wars-trilogy.
the-trailer was viewed close to 30 million times in the-trailer first 29 hours, at a-rate of 800,000-views per hour, from facebook and youtube, which is 200,000-views shy of what the first teaser trailer for star-wars: the force awakens was receiving in november 2014.in june 2016, rogue one was promoted at the star-wars celebration europe iii event in london.
a-further-trailer released in october 2016 prompted the-hollywood-reporter to comment that the-newly-revealed-footage looked like "a-trailer to a-different-movie than the one advertised earlier", remarking that jyn-erso appeared to be portrayed as a-more-vulnerable-character, and highlighting the-appearance of galen-erso as a-protective-father-figure.
the-film's-publicity-tour began in mexico on november 23, 2016.in asia, disney focused marketing-efforts on donnie-yen, where his-individual-poster is used for marketing in territories including japan, singapore, indonesia, thailand, hong-kong, china, vietnam, and malaysia.
rogue one was released on digital-hd on march 24, 2017, and by walt-disney-studios-home-entertainment on blu-ray, blu-ray 3d, and dvd on april 4, 2017.
rogue one grossed $532.2 million in the-united-states and canada and $523.8 million in other-countries for a-worldwide-total of $1.056 billion.
deadline-hollywood calculated the-net-profit of the-film to be $319.6 million, when factoring together all-expenses and revenues for the-film, making the-film the third-most profitable release of 2016.in late-november 2016, box-office-projections for the-united-states and canada-canada had the-film grossing $100–150 million during the-film opening weekend.
pre-sale-tickets for the-film went on sale at 12:01-am est on november 28, 2016.
in the-film first-24-hours, the-film had the-second-highest-number of pre-sale-tickets ever sold, behind only-the-force awakens.
worldwide, the-film was expected to gross $280–350 million in the-film opening weekend.
in the-united-states, the-film made $29 million from the-film thursday-night-previews, making the-film the highest-grossing thursday opening of 2016.
on friday, the-film grossed $71.1 million, and $46.3 million the next day, securing a-total of $155.1 million in its-opening-weekend, the-third-biggest-debut of 2016.
the-film topped the-box-office once again in the-film second weekend, grossing $64 million (down 58.7%) over the-three-day-weekend, and $96.1 million over the-four-day-weekend.
audiences polled by cinemascore gave the-film an-average-grade of "a" on an a+ to f-scale, while posttrak reported filmgoers gave the-film a-91%-overall-positive-score.
ign-reviewer-eric-goldman gave the-film 9/10, saying, "rogue one is a-movie crammed with fan-service, but when fan-service is done this well, there's little to complain about and much to adore."
peter-travers of rolling-stone gave the-film 3.5 out-of-4-stars, writing, "
/film gave rogue one 8/10, writing that the-film is enjoyable but does not have the-emotional-weight of the force awakens, because "no-character in rogue one was strongly compelling".
richard-brody of the-new-yorker called the-film "lobotomized and "depersonalized", and wrote it "isn't so much a-movie as a-feature-length-promotional-film for it; it's a-movie that is still waiting to be made."
indiewire's-david-ehrlich gave the-film a-c+-rating, calling the-film "a spirited but agonizingly safe attempt to expand cinema's-most-holy-blockbuster-franchise and keep the-wheels greased between proper-installments ... just-a-glorified-excuse to retcon some-sense into one of the-silliest-things about the original".
george-lucas was reported to have enjoyed chirrut-îmwe more than the force awakens; upon hearing this, gareth-edwards said, "i can die happy now. "
today said: "... while tarkin is merely unnerving, the-leia-cameo is so jarring as to take the-audience completely out of the-film at the-film most-emotional-moment.
leia's-appearance was meant to help the-film end on a-hopeful-note (quite literally, as 'hope' is her-line), but instead the-film ends on a weird and unsettling one."
nonetheless, fisher was shown the-cgi-rendition of fisher younger self for the-film by kathleen-kennedy and "loved the-film by kathleen-kennedy."
characters from the-film also appeared in the-second-half of rebels, starting with saw in the-hour-long-season-3-episode "ghosts of geonosis".
more-characters and vehicles that were first introduced in the-film appear in the-series'-fourth-and-final-season, while the-film's main antagonist, orson-krennic, is mentioned by name.
on november 8, 2018, it was announced that a-live-action-prequel-series was officially in development and set to air on disney's-streaming-service, disney+.
a-tie-in-novel to the-film,-catalyst: a-rogue-one-novel, was released on november 15, 2016.
the-novelization of the-film was written by alexander-freed, and released on december 16, 2016.months after the-film was released, disney-|-lucasfilm-press published another-novel titled star wars: rebel rising on may 2, 2017.
jyn-erso-mother died and the-day when rebel-agents freed jyn-erso from an-imperial-labor-camp, a-time-period that the-film skips over in the-film opening minutes.
written by novelist and comic-writer-greg-rucka, it focused on the-characters chirrut and baze, telling the-characters chirrut and baze backstories as well as giving more-context to the-events that happened on jedha prior to the-film and even-the-imperial-occupation.
months after the-film was released, marvel-comics adapted the-film into a-six-part-comic-book-miniseries, which adds extra-content.
the-miniseries'-complete-collection was released on december 12, 2017.
several-characters and concepts from the-film were also included in the-mobile-games-star-wars: force-arena, star-wars-commander, and star-wars: galaxy of heroes, all available on ios and android.
the-nissan-rogue made the-nissan-rogue debut in october 2007 for the-2008-model-year.
the-rogue made the-rogue debut at the-north-american-international-auto-show in detroit on january 7, 2007.
it replaces the-nissan-x-trail in canada as nissan's-entry-level-suv and the body-on-frame nissan xterra in mexico due to the-smyrna-plant freeing capacity for the-2009-suzuki-equator, but the body-on-frame nissan xterra in mexico continued on sale in the-united-states and canada through 2015 after being withdrawn from the-mexican-market after the-2008-model-year.
on november 23, 2011, nissan announced a-recall of 7,365-2011-rogue-vehicles for improperly manufactured electric power steering (eps) assist units, which over time could cause the-power-assist-feature to fail, causing a-loss of power-assist and an-increased-risk of an-accident.
in february 2012, nissan recalled 2,983-my-2012-versions of the-murano and the-rogue, because the-tire-pressure-monitoring-system was not activated when the-cars were assembled.
rogue-select === went on sale in january 2014 as a-2014-model-year-vehicle and was continued through 2015.
us-models went on sale in november 2013 as a-2014-model-year-vehicle.
production of the-rogue-crossover at south-korean-manufacturer-renault-samsung-motors's-busan-plant started in september 2014, with an-annual-capacity of about-80,000-units.
a-hybrid-rogue debuted january 2017, with limited-availability for the-2017-model-year.
production in the-united-states started on september 22, 2020 and the-third-generation-rogue arrived at nissan-dealerships in the-united-states in late-october.
production in the-united-states is claimed to be built on a-new-platform, although the-dimensions are similar to production in the-united-states predecessor.
a-rogue-one-novel is a-science-fiction-novel written by james-luceno that was published on november 15, 2016.
the-novel serves to create a-backstory both to rogue one and to a-new-hope from 1977.catalyst was announced in july 2016 at the-star-wars-celebration-europe-event in london during a-star-wars-publishing-panel-session.
catalyst was released in hardback-and-electronic-versions on november 15, 2016.
the-conclusion of catalyst leads into the-first-events of the-rogue-one: a-star-wars-story-novel, released in december 2016.
he was subsequently played by forest-whitaker in the-film rogue one:
a-star-wars-story, who went on to voice the-character in the-animated-series star-wars-rebels and the-video-game star-wars-jedi: fallen-order.
george-lucas had pablo-hidalgo of lucasfilm’s-story-group in mind for george-lucas live-action tv series that was in development, which ultimately never happened, but george-lucas found a-place to put saw into a-story in clone-wars. "
director of the-clone-wars dave filoni stated: "we wanted a-brother/sister-duo on onderon, and the-character saw was a-character that george had already created, and the-character just wanted to involve and tell a little more about the-character.
andrew-kishino, who voiced saw in the-clone-wars, said that the-character "[h]as even sort of, embodied in the-character, that-feisty-spirit of the-rebellion.
the-character appears on all-the-episodes of the-arc, along with the-character sister, steela-gerrera, the-leader of the-onderon-rebels.
saw appears in the-novelization-adaptation of the-film rogue-one by alexander-freed.
the-character is mentioned in the-novel-star-wars:
despite the-game taking place only five years after the-clone-wars, gerrera is significantly older, closely resembling gerrera star wars rebels self.
many-surviving-members of rogue-squadron, the-rebel-x-wing-attack-force that luke-skywalker joins during the-battle of yavin in star-wars (1977), later join rogue-squadron.
red-squadron, the-forerunner of rogue-squadron, is first featured as a-rebel-alliance-division in a-new-hope (1977) during the-attack on the-death-star.
during the-battle of endor on return of the-jedi, rogue-squadron was dissolved and absorbed into the-general-fleet and antilles took the-role of red-leader, in memory of the-battle of yavin.
he is the-leader of rogue-squadron during the-battle of yavin 4 in a-new-hope (played by drewe henley).
a-new-hope (played by drewe-henley) is killed by vader.
wedge appears in season 3 of star-wars:
biggs-darklighter === briefly appeared in a-new-hope played by garrick-hagon.
jek-tono-porkins is a-famously-overweight-red-squadron-pilot whose-death is depicted in a-new-hope (played by william-hootkins)
, janson only appears in the empire strikes back in the-role of wedge-antilles'-gunner at the-battle of hoth.
aaron-allston included the-character in aaron-allston installments in the-x-wing-novel-series which followed from the-comics, although janson in those-novels is prominent as a-member of wraith-squadron, not rogue-squadron.
hobbie appears in season 3 of rebels, where hobbie is voiced by trevor-devall.
with the-2012-acquisition of lucasfilm by the-walt-disney-company, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film were rebranded as star-wars-legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise in april 2014.in the-legends-non-canonical-storyline, the-x-wing-comic-series, written by michael-a.-stackpole and published by dark-horse-comics, were the-first-works of star-wars-literature to focus on the-adventures and exploits of the-squadron.
stackpole is credited as the-creator of the-character corran-horn, who later starred in
kasan-moor is recruited during the-liberation of gerrard-v, and when kasan-moor joins, kasan-moor becomes rogue-squadron-lone-female-pilot during the-game and a-treasure-trove of information on the-imperials.
the-character was created as a-member of rogue-one, then commanded by a-rebel-alliance-sergeant-version of jyn-erso.
the-main-purpose of this-action was believed to be for the-characters to be ultimately replaced after the-film by the-crew of the-original-trilogy.
diego-luna spoke in the-role with diego-luna native mexican accent, an-exception for the-film-franchise, which has mostly featured american-and-british-accents.
a-star-wars-story was released in december 2016, featuring luna in the-role of cassian-andor, a-man who had been fighting in the-rebellion since he was six years old.
diego-luna is set to reprise cassian-role as andor in a-live-action-"spy-thriller"-series for disney+, which began production in november 2018 and was set to begin filming in june 2020, but the-filming-date was delayed due to the-covid-19-pandemic.
filming ultimately began in december 2020 in london, united-kingdom.
praising felicity-jones in the-role of jyn-erso, chris-nashawaty wrote in entertainment-weekly, "i wish luna had a-little-more-personality, a-little-more-han-solo-swagger, to match luna."
industrial-light-&-magic-chief-creative-officer-john-knoll, credited for the-story of rogue-one, told vanity-fair in 2016 that he conceived the-plot of the-film while working as a-visual-effects-supervisor on the-2005-film-star-wars:
ahmed was reported to be in talks in april 2015 by the-wrap, ahmed casting was later confirmed by variety in may 2015.
ahmed has said that director-gareth-edwards reached out to ahmed for the-role although the-role had not been fully developed yet, and ahmed sent over-10-audition-tapes in the-hopes that at-least-one would satisfy the-director, recounting in an-interview with time-magazine; " ahmed [edwards] made the-mistake of giving me ahmed email address because i just spammed ahmed about-10-15-different-versions of this-thing—doing this-obsessive-thing that i do.
a-star-wars-story was released in december 2016, featuring riz-ahmed in the-role of bodhi.
the-character is the-primary-antagonist in the-original-trilogy and, as anakin-skywalker, is a-primary-protagonist in the-prequel-trilogy.
star-wars-creator-george-lucas has collectively referred to the-first-six-episodic-films of the-franchise as "the-tragedy of darth-vader".
various-combinations of names for the-character were built upon the-phrase "dark-water".
then lucas "added lots of last-names, vaders and wilsons and smiths, and [he] just came up with the-combination of darth and vader.
after the-release of the empire strikes back (1980), lucas said the-name-vader was based upon the-german/dutch-language-homophone-vater or vader, meaning 'father', making the-name-representative of a-"dark-father".
lucas denied this following annakin's-death in 2009.
anakin and luke's-original-surname "starkiller" remained in the-script until a-few-months into filming star-wars, when it was dropped due to what lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with charles-manson and replaced with "skywalker".
originally, lucas conceived of the-sith as a-group that served the-emperor in the-same-way that the-schutzstaffel served adolf-hitler.
back, lucas condensed this into one-character in the-form of darth-vader.
after the-success of the-original-star-wars (1977), lucas hired science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett to write the-sequel with science-fiction-author-leigh-brackett.
they held story-conferences and, by late-november 1977, lucas had produced a-handwritten-treatment.
lucas was disappointed with the-script, but brackett died of cancer before brackett could discuss it with brackett.
with no-writer available, lucas wrote the-next-draft himself.
in the-next-draft himself, dated april 1, 1978, lucas made use of a-new-plot-twist: vader claiming to be luke's-father.
according to lucas, lucas found the-next-draft himself enjoyable to write, as opposed to the-year-long-struggles writing the-first-film.
lucas has said that lucas knew vader was luke's-father while writing the-first-film, though the-relationship is not evidenced before said-draft of the empire strikes back.
author-michael-kaminski argues in the-secret-history of star-wars that it is unlikely that the-plot-point had ever seriously been considered or even conceived of before 1978, and that the-first-film was clearly operating under a-storyline where vader was a-separate-character from luke's-father.
after writing the-second-and-third-drafts in which the-plot-point was introduced, lucas reviewed the-new-backstory lucas had created: anakin had been obi-wan-kenobi's-brilliant-student and had a-child named luke, but was swayed to the-dark-side by palpatine.
after deciding to create the-prequel-trilogy, lucas indicated that the-story-arc would be a-tragic-one depicting anakin's-fall to the-dark-side.
lucas also saw that the-prequels could form the-beginning of one-long-story that started with anakin's-childhood and ended with lucas death.
for the-first-prequel,-episode-i: the-phantom-menace (1999), lucas made anakin nine years old to make the-character's-separation from anakin mother more poignant.
lucas states in an-interview recorded around the-time of the-third-prequel, revenge of the-sith (2005), that "anakin is the chosen one.
"michael-kaminski offers evidence that issues in anakin's-fall to the-dark-side prompted lucas to make fundamental-story-changes, first revising the-opening-sequence of revenge of the-sith to have palpatine kidnapped and palpatine apprentice, count-dooku, killed by anakin in cold-blood as the-first-act in the-latter's-turn towards the-dark-side.
after principal-photography was complete in 2003, lucas re-wrote anakin's-turn to the-dark-side; anakin's-fall from grace would now be motivated by a-desire to save his-wife, padmé-amidala, rather than the-previous-version in which that-reason was one of several, including that his genuinely believed that the-jedi were plotting to take over the-republic.
dave-filoni said that giving anakin-responsibility for a-padawan was meant to place the-character in a-role that forced the-character to become more cautious and responsible.
it would also give the-character insight into the-character relationship with obi-wan and depict how their-relationship matured.
the-idea that vader should wear a-breathing-apparatus was first proposed by concept-artist-ralph-mcquarrie during preproduction-discussions for star-wars with george-lucas in 1975.
lucas agreed, and mcquarrie combined a-full-face-breathing-mask with a-samurai-helmet, thus creating one of the-most-iconic-designs of space-fantasy-cinema.
at 6-ft 6 in (1.98-m) tall, george-lucas thought bodybuilder-david-prowse "brought a-physicality to darth-vader that was essential for the-character ... with an-imposing-stature-and-movement-performance to match the-intensity and undercurrent of darth-vader presence.
lucas originally intended for orson-welles to voice vader, but after deciding that orson-welles's voice would be too recognizable, him cast the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones instead.
when the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones was specifically asked if the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones had supplied vader's-voice for revenge of the-sith—either newly or from a-previous-recording—the-lesser-known-james-earl-jones answered, "you'd have to ask lucas about that.
during the-production of revenge of the-siththe-sith, christensen asked lucas if a-special-vader-suit could be constructed to fit vader-own-body, rather than have a-different-actor don one of the-original-sets of vader-armor worn by prowse.
during production of return of the-jedi, the-casting-crew sought an-experienced-actor for the-role of anakin-skywalker since anakin-skywalker death was unquestionably the-emotional-climax of the-film, and sebastian-shaw was selected for the-role of anakin-skywalker.
lucas personally directed shaw for shaw appearance in the-final-scene of the-film, in which shaw is a-force-ghost of anakin.
when the-phantom-menace was being produced, hundreds of actors were tested for the-role of young-anakin before the-producers settled on jake-lloyd, who lucas considered met shaw-requirements of "a-good-actor, enthusiastic and very energetic".
during production of attack of the-clones, casting director-robin-gurland reviewed about-1,500-other-candidates for the-role of the-young-anakin before lucas eventually selected hayden-christensen for the-role.
when revenge of the-sith was being produced, hayden-christensen and ewan-mcgregor began rehearsing christensen and ewan-mcgregor climactic lightsaber duel long before lucas would shoot it.
darth-vader first appears in star-wars as a-ruthless-cyborg-sith-lord serving the-galactic-empire.
i – the-phantom-menace, which takes place 32 years before a-new-hope
the-film also reveals that the-voice which ren perceived coming from vader's-helmet in the-force-awakens was generated by emperor-palpatine.
an-image of a-deleted-scene featuring darth-vader was revealed in february 2021 by industrial-light-&-magic-visual-effects-animator-hal-hickel, who added that darth-vader was supposed to have a-conversation with tarkin in that-scene.
on december 10, 2020, during a-disney-investor-event, it was announced that hayden-christensen would return as vader in the upcoming disney+
the-game, titled vader immortal, had three-episodes overall, set between revenge of the-sith and rogue one; the first became available with the-launch of oculus-quest, while the-last-episode was released on november 21, 2019.
the-game was later ported to the-oculus-rift.
in april 2014, most of the-licensed-star-wars-novels and comics produced since the-originating-1977-film star-wars were rebranded by lucasfilm as legends and declared non-canon to the-franchise.
in boba-fett: enemy of the-empire (1999), vader hires fett a few years before the-events of a-new-hope.
star-wars: empire (2002–2005) spans from about a year before a-new-hope to several-months afterwards.
darth-vader and anakin-skywalker have appeared in a-number of star-wars since the-earliest-days of the-franchise, though rarely as a-playable-character.
in the-story, vader colludes with boba-fett to entrap the-rebels.
george-lucas felt hurt at such-accusations.
the-character of dark-mayhem in the-thundermans is also a-parody of vader, especially in the-character of dark-mayhem in the-thundermans original depiction.
in january 2007, jon-stewart put on a-vader-helmet to address us-vice-president-dick-cheney as a-"kindred-spirit" on the-daily-show.
us-vice-president-dick-cheney's-wife, lynne, presented jon-stewart with a-vader-action-figure on jon-stewart october 2007 appearance on the-daily-show.
at a-presidential-campaign-event in september 2007, hillary-clinton also referred to cheney as vader.
in 2009, george-lucas stated that cheney is more akin to palpatine, and that a-better-stand-in for vader would be george-w.-bush.
on december 2, 2020, a-figurine of vader appeared on the-plinth where the-statue of edward-colston once stood in bristol, united-kingdom, in what was seen as a-tribute to the-actor david-prowse, who died on november 29, 2020.
the-character was introduced as a-child in the-2016-prequel-novel-catalyst by james-luceno.
industrial-light-&-magic-chief-creative-officer-john-knoll, credited for the-story of rogue-one, told vanity-fair in 2016 that he conceived the-plot of the-film while working as a-visual-effects-supervisor on the-2005-film-star-wars:
the-casting of felicity-jones in the-role of jyn was announced on march 12, 2015.
in january 2015, the-hollywood-reporter stated that numerous-actresses, including tatiana-maslany, rooney-mara, and felicity-jones were being tested for the-lead-role in rogue-one, the-first-stand-alone-star-wars-film.
in february 2015, it was reported that felicity-jones was in final-talks to star in the-film, and felicity-jones official casting was announced in march 2015.
writing for vanity-fair, hilary-busis suggested that with jyn's-backstory, the-film was drawing on "the-star-wars-franchise's-greatest-natural-resource: daddy-issues".
the-daily-telegraph described jyn as "a-roguish,-han-solo-style-heroine", and todd-mccarthy of the-hollywood-reporter called the-character "a-female-warrior driven by destiny to take on the-mightiest-power in the-galaxy".
jyn is introduced as a-child in the-prequel-novel-catalyst: a-rogue-one-novel by james-luceno, published in november 2016.
rogue one was released in december 2016, with felicity-jones in the-role of jyn.
indiewire's-david-ehrlich suggested that the-film "is ultimately just-a-glorified-excuse to retcon some-sense into one of the-silliest-things about the-original."
the-hollywood-reporter's-graeme-mcmillan criticized the-character for the-hollywood-reporter's-graeme-mcmillan passive role in the-film's-plot, calling the-hollywood-reporter's-graeme-mcmillan "a-void where the-movie's-heart should live".
the-hollywood-reporter's-graeme-mcmillan speculated that the-character was a-possible-"casualty" of rogue-one's-reshoots.
designs for the-character's-look focused on giving the-character both-a-unique-silhouette as well as keeping the-character in tune with the-imperial-aesthetic from a-new-hope.
tudyk initially turned down the-role as
however, he was concerned about making the-character an "outlier in he-own-movie", similar to jar-jar-binks, hoping to keep k-2so feeling like "part of the-world".
" similarly, chris-nashawaty of entertainment-weekly called the-character "c3po's more sarcastic, less fey cousin."
peter-bradshaw of the-guardian compared the-character to the-titular-robot from ted-hughes'-novel the-iron-man, writing:
k-2so, portrayed by tudyk, appears in rogue one: a-star-wars-story, which was released in december 2016.
the-character was to be shot and killed by orson-krennic, the-main-villain of the-film, but the-writers thought that k-2so deserved a-more-heroic-demise to be more suitable for k-2so.
tudyk reprises the-role in the-short-film "the-good-stuff!"
justin-chang of los-angeles-times dubbed the-character "the-requisite-scene-stealer" of the-film, and a.-o.-scott of the-new-york-times praised "the-dry,-sarcastic-tones of the-indispensable-alan-tudyk."
ign's-eric-goldman praised the-cast of the-film but noted, "it's tudyk's-k-2so who's often the-standout", adding that the-actor's-performance gives the-character "a-sympathetic-'soul' (if such-a-word is appropriate for a-droid)".
ann-hornaday, also of the-washington-post, wrote that the-character "provides precious-comic-relief in a-film that is otherwise grim and unsmiling".
